 Hi, I'm Raul Powell, co-founder and CEO of Real Vision.
 Thank you so much for listening to the Real Vision podcast.
 At Real Vision we pride ourselves on providing the best in-depth expert analysis available
 to help you understand the complex world of finance, business, and the global economy.
 If you like what you hear, I hope you'll accept my invitation to try Real Vision plus
 for 30 days for just $1.
 Visit realvishimpodcast.com today and join us as we navigate the financial world together.
 Cheers.
 Good evening everyone.
 The Law of Gravity hit Wall Street today and financial markets around the world for
 that matter.
 As stock prices plunged even more than they did on Black Tuesday of 1929, when the dust
 settled, the Dow Jones Industrial Average had lost more than 508 points on volume of
 604 million shares.
 It's really double the previous record.
 Let's start with what's really important tonight.
 It's just your money, not your life.
 Everybody who really loved you a week ago still loves you tonight, and that's a heck
 of a lot more important than the numbers on a brokerage statement.
 The Robbins will sing, the focuses will bloom, babies will gurgle, and puppies will curl
 up in your lap and drift happily to sleep, even when the stock market goes temporarily
 insane.
 And now that that's all fully in perspective, let me say, ouch, tonight we're going to
 try to make sense out of mass hysteria, to look behind the crash of '87, and most
 perilous but most important of all, to look ahead.
 Today marks the anniversary of one of the biggest stock market crashes in living memory.
 Thirty years ago today, the Dow Jones lost 22% of its value in the most chaotic trading
 session since the Wall Street crash of 1929.
 When the closing bell rang, the Dow had shed 508 points, the biggest point drop,
 and percentage drop in its history.
 What they saw was program selling taken to the ultimate art form, as Wall Street's
 very biggest players stepped in and unloaded multi-billion dollar blocks of shares.
 For three decades, many of those who found themselves caught in the crossfire have
 long since retired, while for most people who have only read about that day in the
 history books, the events of October 19th, 1987 have become nothing more than one bad
 day in the markets, but the reality is much different.
 Black Monday was the culmination of a traumatic week on Wall Street, as the final stages
 of a five-year bull market collided head-on with levels of investor complacency which
 had reached the danger zone.
 The story of that week contains many invaluable lessons for investors, as well as some clear
 parallels to the current market environment, as complacency once again runs riot after
 a multi-year bull market.
 This week, on Adventures in Finance, the 1987 crash.
 Today is the 19th of October, 2017, and welcome to Episode 38 of Adventures in
 Finance.
 Not to my right this week, but in another country, in fact, is my trusty producer,
 James.
 James, how are you?
 Bad.
 I've said it's a lot quieter in the office now that you are not to my left.
 Yes, well, this is back to the good old guys where I'm on the road and you're back
 at base camp and I have to say, I like it better this way.
 I think I do too.
 I've been inundated this week with people trying to retweet things to try and get
 your Twitter followers up, and I've been doing everything I can to help them out.
 So how many are we up to this week?
 Yeah, apparently there is, like, a hashtag, you get A.I.V. James to beat T.T.N.Y.G.H.
 Well, there you go.
 You've got your own hashtag.
 Yeah.
 I didn't even know that there could be a thing.
 But yes, I am at 155 followers.
 155.
 That is awesome, but we've got a long way to go to get you to that magic 150,000
 level.
 How many do you have?
 I have no idea.
 I genuinely don't know, right?
 I think it's more than 155 though.
 I'm quite the confident the same, but hey, I hope you beat me.
 I'm awful.
 I'm backing you to the hilt, my friend.
 Thank you.
 I appreciate it.
 Just make sure that it's the right at A.I.V. James.
 At A.I.V. James.
 Okay.
 I will not forget that.
 I just keep thinking about it.
 Now, before we get into the podcast proper, a quick giveaway for you.
 Now, we've had a real drumbeat of concern for a lot of our contributors on Real Vision
 in the last few months, many of them seeing similarities to what we're going to talk
 about today, 1987 and 2000, 2007, where markets became extremely overvalued.
 We put together a video on this called Edge of the Cliff, which ran through a lot of
 their concerns.
 And we've curated a full chart pack, which goes with the video, and you can download
 that chart pack.
 If you head to realvision.com/edgeofthecliff, you'll find a bunch of charts there that
 really tell a fascinating story.
 So make sure you head to realvision.com/edgeofthecliff to download those.
 But this week, we're not here to talk about chart packs.
 We wanted to take a look back at the events of exactly 30 years ago today, 19th of October
 1987.
 And to do that, we've enlisted a group of contributors who lived and breathed the
 1987 crash from just about every angle.
 We're going to hear what happened on the floor of the New York Stocke chains, as
 well as behind the scenes from the inimitable Art Cash Inn, the director of floor services
 at the New York Stocke exchange for UBS, who was a governor on the floor of the exchange
 that day.
 And we're going to hear from Greg Weldon of Weldon Live, who had begun trading for
 his own account, just weeks prior to the crash.
 David Hay, the CIO of Evergreen Gavcat, in Bellevue, Washington, and Michael Lewitt,
 the author of The Credit Strategies, will offer their perspectives from the east and
 west coast.
 And Trader Vic, Victor Sperandio, explains what it was that caused him to call for
 the crash to occur just weeks before the event in what became a widely read Barron's
 article.
 We also hear from Michael Oliver of Momentum Structural Analysis, who in 1987 was a young
 futures trader trying to develop a system which would help him identify when the market
 was crash prone, and Bill Fleckenstein, of Fleckenstein Capital, offers his memories
 of that fateful day.
 And finally, we're thrilled to be joined by Richard Pomboy, who back in the 1980s
 was a highly successful technology investor and hedge fund manager.
 Now retired, Richard shares his own incredible story of the 1987 crash that will make you
 believe in the power of premonition.
 To begin the story, though, not in October of 1987, but several years earlier in New
 York City, at the Plaza Hotel.
 Here's Greg Weldon.
 You know, '87 really kind of began to evolve out of the Plaza Court, which was September
 of 1985.
 But the day the Plaza Court was announced was actually a Sunday night, and I remember
 getting on the train in New Jersey to go to New York, and I was working on a floor
 to come ice exchange in the gold pit at the time, and, you know, the Plaza Court
 was announced.
 And I was thinking, how huge this was, and as it turned out, it was as huge as I anticipated
 it would.
 You know, we know that, you know, from that point, the dollar into the basically the
 first half of '87 fell by almost 30%.
 It was a massive decline.
 It had a big impact in terms of kind of starting to stoke some inflation that came
 really in the stock market.
 And if you recall, the stock market kind of started rallying back in '82 off the
 Reagan election, and everything, you know, it was maybe part of the way through in '85,
 but it really accelerated from there after the Plaza Court too.
 That inflation ultimately spilled over, and it had gold rallying as well.
 It was roughly, I think, around 340 on the Plaza Court was announced that actually
 peaked just after the stock market crash, above 500.
 So you had a big moving goal that was predicated on the climb, the dollar.
 And then finally, kind of to me, the kicker was you had energy prices start to rally.
 You had crude oil, WTI went from $9.75 to almost $23, leading up to August of 1987.
 And that kind of started to push inflation.
 Inflation went from just below two to somewhere around four and a half in that time frame.
 And to me, the biggest thing leading into October of '87 really began in the spring
 of '87, and that was a massive plunge in bond prices.
 You had yields, the 10 year, for example, was somewhere south of seven, went somewhere
 north of 10%.
 You had six to eight months of kind of lead time, where the dollar continued to plunge.
 Energy and gold were rallying, and bond yields were soaring.
 And the stock market was playing off the reflation angle, but, you know, in the sense
 that from the '82 beginning of that kind of bull phase, the stock market was already
 up like 240%.
 It had really gotten overheated, and the real debate became, at what point do the
 rise in bond yields show the stock market?
 And it peaked in August, started to come off in September.
 But why did we see the weakness in the bond market and the dollar?
 Another man who remembers the lead up to Black Monday is Bill Fleckenstein, the
 Fleckenstein capital.
 He takes up the story.
 The dollar had been weak to start off '87, and the bond market was under pressure early
 on.
 The reasons for that appeared to be foreigners were a little afraid that the Fed, even
 though Volcker was still there, was "behind the curve."
 This was, you know, late '86, was only two years after the big bond market back.
 We had an '84, where there was this immense inflation fright that made no sense, given
 the fact that Volcker had pretty much broken the back of the inflation of psychology.
 But people were so worried about what had come before the old muscle memory, just
 like now they're not worried at all, that the bond market started backing up, and the
 dollar was weak for the pretty much the same reason they thought the Fed was behind
 the curve, and therefore the dollar was going to continue to weaken.
 That was the pattern through the early part of the year, and the stock market pretty
 much just ignored it.
 And back in those days, it seemed odd to have a declining currency, and a declining
 bond market is really a recipe for trouble for equities, though it didn't matter.
 Hedge fund manager Richard Pomboy had built a stellar track record in technology stocks
 in the Great Bull market, which had begun in 1982.
 But as the dollar continued to weaken and the bond market faded, he grew more nervous
 by the day, with the increasing volatility in overseas markets unsettling him to the
 point that he began doing something that all the very best investors do, building
 a plan which would enable him to get out of the market should his worst fears be
 realized.
 I think the markets overseas had started to deteriorate the day or two before, as
 I recall, and I can't tell you how nervous I was starting probably in July and August.
 So by the time we got into October, I was really on the edge of my seat every day
 and looking for any signs of weakness.
 And I can't say specifically what it was, but I know that I think the night before,
 if I'm correct, markets were weak in Asia.
 And it looked to me, as I came in toward the end of that week, that the market was
 ready to crack.
 And I think the invitations on the opening in the U.S. were for a weak market.
 And you know, I was actually anxious to get out, and I was just being held in by a
 good desire to not give up whatever performance my investors should have thought I should
 be making during those final months.
 Wanted to make sure that I could get out in a moment's notice and was concerned about
 all the portfolio insurance and all that getting in the way and creating a down draft
 that would cause me not to be able to get out.
 The source of a lot of Richard Pomboy's rising angst was something called portfolio
 insurance, a new hedging strategy which had become extremely popular in the run-up
 to 1987.
 But this rise in popularity threw up some fairly obvious potential problems.
 Here's Bill Fleckenstein.
 By spring, it was pretty clear that the concept of portfolio insurance had become
 a pretty big deal.
 It was championed by a Leland O'Brien Rubenstein were the major culprits.
 And I remember reading about this and thinking people can't possibly think that this will
 work, could they?
 And of course, a lot of them did.
 So what the '87 crash was about was sort of stored up energy in the form of selling
 that wasn't released along the way because fewer people bothered to sell despite
 fundamentals that would have made them lighten up, i.e. a week dollar in a week bond market.
 And they didn't sell because they had portfolio insurance where the concept was, "Well, you
 pick your number.
 The market declines by X amount and then we will get you out."
 They would sell futures to hedge you out.
 And that all sounds wonderful on paper until you think about, well, if everyone tries
 or enough people try to do the same thing, who are you going to sell to?
 Which is, in fact, what happened?
 With portfolio insurance promising to sell index futures into any decline in the stock
 market to hedge risk, there was heightened complacency as too many investors trusted
 that this strategy would enable them to simply sidestep any decline.
 One man who wasn't complacent and who saw the obvious problems inherent in everybody
 believing they could all sell futures together when the need arose was Richard Pomboy,
 and he decided to build his own lifeboat, one that didn't rely on portfolio insurance
 to save him in the event of a crash.
 Goldman Sachs was my prime broker, so I made a deal with them.
 My deal with Goldman Sachs was that I restructured my portfolio so that I had no more than
 either a quarter or maybe as much as a half of a day's trading in any individual security.
 No position could be bigger than that.
 The concept was that they would take me out on one phone call at any time.
 We actually rehearsed it a few times, and that looked like it would work.
 So with that agreement in place, Richard had what he thought was real protection for
 his investors, and on Friday, October 16, the last trading day before the crash,
 his sixth sense told him it was time to take action.
 So on Friday before the Black Monday, I actually came into the office wearing a crash helmet,
 which I had worn in raising my Porsche up in some kind of a good racetrack, and declared
 that this was it, and called Goldman Sachs before the opening, and said, "Okay, I want
 out on the opening," and they put a bunch of traders on the line and confirmed all
 the positions, and on the opening, on Friday, we were out.
 One phone call, one broker, one very brave decision.
 But as Richard sat in his office watching the tape with what must have been a huge
 sense of relief, elsewhere things began to get squirrely.
 One man who could enjoy the madness, at least to a degree, was Greg Weldon.
 Really the biggest day was Friday.
 You had to set up Friday.
 I remember I had just started maybe six months prior to trading from my house, from my
 own money.
 I had made a lot of money in the run-up in gold, left the floor, and decided to manage
 my own money for the first time.
 What was interesting about that day is we were short, coming in very heavily.
 So we caught the move.
 But the biggest conundrum was weirding it out.
 It's best I can recall that Dow opens down something like 190 points, which back then
 was a massive percentage decline already, and then started to rally.
 I just remember, "I'm just going to play the math.
 I'm a math guy."
 So if this thing goes more than 61% of the way back, then I'm going to bail.
 If not, I'll hold on to it.
 Well, we hold on to it.
 At the end of that day, we had huge profits.
 One of the things that has stuck with me ever since then, on the flip side of all
 that, was the fact that the volatility increased so much that trying to kind of trade around
 the market became so difficult that the slippage at the end of the day on some of
 these trades was huge and ate up a lot of the profits.
 So the lesson I kind of took away from that is number one, money management is so important.
 And number two is once you have had that kind of big profit in a trade like that,
 maybe you don't want to keep chasing it looking for another big score in the same market.
 Maybe you need to sit back, kind of get your money as opposed to what I ended up doing,
 which was given a lot of it back on the slippage and just the volatility and the fact these
 things were gapping 20, 40 points, and sometimes you had five to 10 full S&P points.
 Bit-esque within 30 seconds was gone, and you're paying 20 points higher, or offering
 something 20 points lower.
 So the volatility they created was unprecedented for the time, obviously, and the back end
 of all that was kind of what was the lesson in terms of trading that I walked away with.
 Meanwhile in Arizona, a young futures trader named Michael Oliver was developing a momentum-based
 technical analysis methodology that he hoped would warn him of impending corrections.
 What he's seeing in the week leading up to that Friday had been enough to convince
 him trouble was coming, but even seeing the warning signs didn't prepare him for
 the swings he would see that day.
 Our principle is you can't break a trend unless there's something to break.
 Well, on the momentum chart it was very clear in '87, and this is before MSA was founded.
 I was a futures broker in Scottsdale, Arizona at the time, and I saw this structure.
 So we had a warning of about a week.
 Sometimes you get more, but this was very little.
 Now I didn't know at the time, and I'll admit this.
 But I learned a lot during that week, the week prior to, and the crash Monday did follow.
 It was going to crash.
 We didn't know that.
 But I informed my customers.
 I got them short.
 We either shorted S&P's or bought some S&P futures puts.
 And we weren't heavily aggressive.
 It wasn't like we made tons, but we were on the right side, and God knows we didn't
 know it would be a 35% drop.
 Well, I learned a lot that week.
 But it really wore me out as a broker, because I have trading power of attorney over my clients.
 So I was dealing with their money, too, and that puts pressure on you, when it's not
 just your money.
 And the ups and downs that week were pretty tough.
 And on Friday, the day before the crash, it would be the 16th.
 The market was down very, very hard, and like to the last hour, it was on its lows,
 and turned around and ran all the way back up to its highs.
 I covered all the positions that we had.
 And by the end of that day, I covered a bit of profit, because we were short much earlier
 than that.
 By the end of the day, the market sold off and went right back to the lows again.
 And I said, oh, I put the position.
 I just impulsively put the positions right back on.
 Then the next-- that was good.
 I was glad I did that, because on Monday, we opened up.
 And at that point in time, the Dow opened 200 points lower.
 In fact, then, that was enormous.
 That was like probably a 1,000-point opening today-- open 200 points lower.
 But at that point, I was so worn out.
 And again, this is psychology, supplied to trading.
 I was so worn out as a broker, and is also being short in the positions, that I covered
 on the opening, thinking, oh boy, finally captured it.
 And I simply walked out the back door, taking a seven-hour walk down the canal,
 come back by the end of the day, if my gains would have been enormously greater than
 they were.
 But I still felt good, because I captured it.
 The weekend arrived just in time to give the frazzled brains of Wall Street's finest
 a chance to regroup after what had been the most volatile week's trading since the
 days of the Wall Street crash in 1929.
 Financial district, and men's fair wild-eyed at the spectacle of complete ruin.
 More than 16 and 1/2 million shares change hands in a single day of frenzied selling.
 The paper fortunes, filled up over the past few years, crumble into nothing before
 this disaster, which is to touch every man, woman, and child in America.
 On the floor of the New York Stock Exchange, Arthur Cashin had survived the violent
 iterations of the market, but he had an inkling that the worst was yet to come.
 Looking for clues as to what that may be, all eyes turned to the news media for any
 clue as to what was coming next, and what they found was hardly encouraging, both
 at home and abroad.
 Art takes up a story in his own in an imitable way.
 Art Cashin, Director of Four Operations at the New York Stock Exchange, for UBS
 Financial Services.
 Not that it came out of nowhere, we had some inkling in the days leading up to the Monday
 crash, that things were not going well.
 The market had topped out several weeks earlier, and the week before things turned
 a bit dramatic.
 The Wednesday before the crash, the Dow was down 95 points, which was the greatest
 number of points in any drop in the history of the Dow.
 Things turned a little quieter on Thursday, and then on Friday, which was an option
 exploration day, the market sold down, I believe about 108 points, which then became
 the largest single point drop in the history of the Dow.
 Some of that came late in the day because of the exploration, which meant that specialists
 wound up buying positions that they could not lay off because it was so late in the
 day.
 The weekend was filled with different pieces of noise.
 Betsy Reagan was sent to Bethesda Hospital for surgery concerning cancer.
 She was the president's right hand, and certainly, if she was not around, he would
 be at the very least, very distracted or possibly ill-advised.
 That made markets nervous.
 At the same time, Treasury Secretary Baker had engaged in a loud, verbal confrontation
 with the Germans over the value of the Deutschmark, and whether there were some unfair trade
 advantages going on, so it sounded like a currency war could be breaking out at any
 minute, which made everyone further nervous, and was the subject of any of the weekend
 talk shows.
 We were trying to stimulate our economy, and we were raising rates, which was causing
 the dollar to go up, so we were trying to get Germany to also stimulate their economy.
 The key words for the '87 crash was when James Baker said, "If Germany doesn't also
 stimulate its economy, we would let the dollar slide."
 That's Victor Sperandio, known as Trader Vic back in 1987.
 Just days before the crash, Victor had predicted in a widely read Barron's article that
 a crash was not only likely but imminent, and when he read Secretary Baker's words,
 he thought to himself, "Okay, this is it."
 Now, when you're the Secretary of the Treasury, as James Baker was, and you say you're going
 to let the dollar slide, you mean you're going to devalue, and he didn't say how much.
 That was the essence of the crash, the devaluation of the dollar.
 It's always the dollar, but in this case, the Secretary of the Treasury, if somebody
 else had said it probably wouldn't have been as powerful, but if you were a foreign
 person, you didn't know what he meant by letting the dollar slide.
 Well, a slide could be 10%, 20%, 30%, you just don't know.
 So it caused this massive amount of selling, and it was just an avalanche, and it really
 started with the wrong remark at the wrong time, the wrong comment at the wrong time
 by the wrong guy.
 The panic selling got an unlikely boost from Treasury Secretary James Baker, who tried
 to stop last week's bloodbath by suggesting over the weekend that the dollar needed to
 decline more, but that only opened old currency moves.
 The same wounds the bond market has been licking from months now.
 But Baker's words weren't the only clear and present danger to markets.
 Geopolitical problems in the Middle East have art cash encircling the wagons ahead of
 the opening bell on Monday, and as 9.30 approached, the tension grew by the minute.
 And finally, on that morning, there were reports of hostility in the area around Iran.
 We were rumored to be firing on some of the platforms near the states of Hormuz,
 and that also got everybody excited.
 So I had made some phone calls and recommended that the members of the staff try to get
 their early already around the world, equity markets, and other places were down between
 8 and 10%, so we knew that this was going to be quite a day indeed.
 So I and one or two of my partners having satisfied ourselves, that everything was
 in good working order, and we were police staff, went up to the stock exchange luncheon
 club to grab a quick cup of coffee before the day started in earnest.
 By accident, we wound up at a table not too far away from the table at which John
 felon, the chairman of the stock exchange, was sitting with several of his aides.
 And the sense of anxiety was added to by noticing that every 5 minutes or so, a separate
 aide to felon came running in, whispered in his ear, he quickly and quietly consulted
 with some of the people around him, and there were no smiles on any of the faces, so it
 was pretty evident that they were assuming we were going to have a tough day too.
 So at any rate, having finished the coffee, we decided to head to the floor to make
 sure we were ready when things got started.
 I went up, felon and I were fairly friendly, and I went up to his table, and I put my
 right arm across my chest, and gave him the gladiators salute, moratori te, salutamos
 essay, we who are about to die salute you, and John had had enough Latin that he understood
 what I was saying, and he just solemnly nodded his head, said, "See you on the floor."
 When you work on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange, you know that no matter
 what's going on in the world, no matter how uncertain you are about what's about to
 happen, the one thing you can count on is that the bell will ring at 9.30, and trading
 will begin.
 In quiet markets or crashes, once the bell sounds, it's every man for himself, and
 in that respect, October 19th, 1987 was no different, except for the sheer level of
 chaos unleashed by the ringing of that bell.
 The get cut, the water flow was heavy, and to the cell side, some market moves looked
 slightly disproportionate, some of the specialists availed themselves of a procedure we had
 here at the time of being able to indicate stocks if XYZ had closed at 55, and you
 thought it was going to open down around 40.
 That's an awfully big surprise to people, so to get them to understand what was going
 on, you might put an indication up of 38.42, and let that rest there for a couple of
 minutes before trading would begin, so that people in Iowa and elsewhere would get to
 know the things we're going to be trading at those prices.
 In the meantime, in Chicago, they didn't have an ability to alter delay individual
 stocks, so they had to trade the entire index, so that opened immediately, and it
 opened down in a sharp fashion, and that set up a strange kind of arbitrage opportunity,
 which, the Dow, which had closed around, I think, around 2,200 or somewhere would
 be trading at 2,100 in New York, and the equivalent in Chicago would be trading at
 2,000 or below, so that created in people's minds, the oppression that, "Yeah, I want
 to sell them in New York because I can possibly get a better price."
 That impression led to more and more selling, not just the people who were trading in
 Chicago, but others who decided that I want to sell in New York to get that opportunity.
 Meanwhile, in Chicago, a young corporate financier, Michael Lewis, who would go on
 to write the credit strategist, was just four months into his career and trying to
 figure out what the hell was going on.
 Well, I remember the day, like many people, very well, I had just started at
 Drexel in the corporate finance department in late June, so it was just
 three or so months to enjoy August, you know, so they, I don't know, three or four
 months before, and so I, you know, I was still figuring out how to turn on the computer,
 and they decided for some reason that still escapes me, that I would be a good
 guy to go out and get speeches, among other things, probably because I
 figured out I had no clue about what else to do.
 So they had sent me that day to Chicago to give a speech, and I gave a speech, and
 no one was paying attention to me, of course, because they were watching the
 market plunge, and, you know, I gave my speech, and came back, and by the time I
 got back, the market had plunged all those points, which at the, at the time, you
 know, we've seen plungists in them that was catastrophic, and I was completely
 convinced that I, my career was over, because I thought the world was coming
 to an end.
 One man who wasn't confused was Art Cashin, however, not everybody was as
 clear-headed as art.
 Now, the key thing that would exacerbate what happened for the balance of the day
 was that what you really had here were two parallel highways with vastly
 different rules, and yet at the same time, because of the ability to sell one
 versus the other, the equivalent of those highways with the separate and
 very different rules was that they had interchanges, so that at any given
 time, somebody who had some difficulty selling in Chicago would sip on to the
 highway in New York at a completely different speed, and try and get things
 done, and that kind of, if you were zigging and zagging back and forth, it
 never allowed the markets to get really stable.
 So we opened with the gap down in both places, they were continuing to sell.
 The chairman of the SEC was relatively new, he had recently been
 appointed, he was out giving a speech at a hotel in Washington, and on his way
 out and heading back to the SEC.
 He was asked about the market, and the topic of a possible trading halt came
 up, and he seemed to hint that under certain circumstances, the market could
 have a halt, and that kind of added to the sense of panic, because number one,
 you don't want to go in, even though things look cheap, you don't want to
 rush in and buy them, if they're thinking of halting trading, because then you
 can't get out, the rally can never start, so that, in its own way, helped
 to dissuade buyers, and made the sellers even more nervous, and they
 pushed to sell.
 From the standpoint of the brokers, as we moved into the afternoon, and the
 selling remained relentless, and we began trading at prices that, you almost
 felt you were in a movie dream sequence, and knew the price you were trading at,
 but you couldn't actually believe it was really, you didn't think, "I can't
 be selling this stock at this price, can I?"
 How was that actually possible?
 On the West Coast, it was 6.30 am, and in Bellevue, Washington, a young man called
 David Hay, stared at his quote screens, watching the unthinkable happen.
 I've been in the business at that juncture about eight years, so it was not exactly
 a rookie, but certainly not a whole-time veteran either, but I do remember
 looking at just watching IBM literally melting away in minutes, going from 1.30
 to 1.20 to 1.10 to 1.00, for a while, we thought there was something wrong
 with our machines, so you didn't really have the kind of activity by any means
 that you have today, but, you know, nonetheless, you know, panic was just
 ripping through the financial markets. We'd never account or anything like it was
 like, you know, flashback to 1929.
 Meanwhile, on the floor of the exchange, the selling pressure continued to dumb-found
 traders as it ratcheted even higher.
 The order flow continued to raise in faster and faster, and as we pushed on,
 there were a couple of small pauses at some negligible rally attempts, but
 overall, the pressure was tremendous, and by the end of the day, the tape was
 running late because we can trade faster than the human eye can read.
 So, if they printed the sales as fast as they were occurring, the tape would
 be a blur. Nobody could recognize it, so what they did was they printed them
 at the maximum speed that the human eye could recognize it, which meant that
 it theoretically fell behind in time. Prices you were looking at had occurred
 an hour ago, and to try and avoid the total panic that that might bring,
 every once in a while, they would put up what they call flash prices, and
 they were still somewhat out of sequence, but far more recent, and they told
 people pretty much what was going on in a timely fashion, and you could see
 from the flash prices being so much lower that prices were nearly in free
 fall, as if a trap door had occurred, and that continued in the tremendous
 volume with the tape running late, and ultimately by the end of the day, we
 were down 508 points in the Dow, 22% the worst day in the history of the Dow
 Jones and the New York Stock Exchange. When trading was halted at the normal
 time, everybody looked around at each other, wondering would they still be
 here tomorrow or the next day, if somebody had made an error in trading,
 if something came back to haunt you, it could be hundreds of thousands of
 dollars. While that was one of the most dramatic days of that period, and in
 my 50-some-odd-year career here at Wall Street on the floor, it was the
 next day that was the most dramatic. It was as if the wheels might in fact
 come off the locomotives. Incredibly, with traders reeling from a 22% decline
 in the Dow, a one-day move the likes of which has never happened before or
 since, and which took the losses of the index to 35% in a week. As the
 following day dawned with many predicting the inevitable bounce, the
 market did what the market always does, set out to fool the maximum number of
 people possible. What happened was the market rebounded on the opening, as you
 would expect after a 22% one-day sell-off, but after a while, prices began to roll
 over, and they moved lower. And when the Dow went into negative territory, you
 could hear an audible gasp here on the floor. But this rolling over of the
 index into negative territory had its roots in activities not taking place
 on the floor of the exchange, but behind the scenes. And what I discovered
 after several minutes was that what had happened was a kind of fluke of the
 business. For months before, many of the major banks in the Wall Street area
 had gone around soliciting the accounts of specialists and market
 makers here at Over the Counter to provide them with their lines of
 credit so that they could basically borrow money to make the markets that
 they were making. And as human nature would have it, when the senior
 management of those banks came in the next day and saw that the markets had
 dropped 22%, they immediately put themselves in a position to supersede
 the guy who normally ran that business, the guy who understood that
 business, the guy who understood how a specialist worked. And instead, they
 were replaced by the chairman of the banker, the vice chairman, who then
 proceeded to call in the specialist and tell them that they were shutting
 down their lines of credit. Because while we know that you're
 obligated to stand up for what you bought yesterday, we're not so sure
 that the people that you sold to will stand up for what they bought. So we
 can't put the bank and its clients and its shareholders at risk. So we're
 shutting down your line of credit. So one after another, the specialist
 came to the floor. I was a governor at the time and they came to me and said,
 "You're gonna have to haul trading in several of my stocks because they've
 just closed my line of credit. And I don't have enough cash to make a
 market." I think I personally shut down 10 of the 30
 Dow stocks. And in the meantime, they went up to
 Chairman Phil and his office. He started calling around to the banks,
 explaining to them that they misunderstood how things were going, that
 they had to reopen the lines of credit, or the whole financial system might
 come crashing to a halt. They wouldn't listen to him. He then reached
 out for Alan Greenspan, who had just been appointed
 Chairman of the Fed. Greenspan had accepted the role of Chairman of the
 Federal Reserve just a few months earlier and had yet to become the
 Maestro. David Hay recalls what happened next.
 On that day, Alan Greenspan had gone on a plane from Washington to Dallas
 and didn't even have any connectivity in the air at that
 time of course. And he lands and he immediately calls his office
 and asks what the stock market did. Because there were a lot of rumors
 that there were massive sell orders from the previous Friday that had not
 been filled. So he was very worried. We were all
 very concerned over that weekend. And he landed and they told him the
 market was down 508. And he had the big sigh of relief, thinking they
 meant 5.08. When he found out it was 508 points. He immediately
 got on the plane and flew back to Washington. And I think that's
 pretty interesting to think about because really that was the birth of
 the Greenspan put. The first time the Fed reacted to the stock price
 collapsed and of course just flooded the system with liquidity to
 to stop the the bleeding and eventually create a rally.
 So the Greenspan put was born. Something which we couldn't have imagined back
 then would pave the way for quantitative easing and the trillions of
 dollars of stimulus still being applied by central banks of today.
 But behind the scenes at the New York Stock Exchange, frantic moves were
 being made to reopen the specialist credit lines
 so the market could function properly. Jerry Carrigan, who was the
 president of the New York Fed, he quickly understood what the
 problem was. He began calling around to the banks,
 telling them that they needed to reopen the lines of credit.
 Perversely, they, I am told, even gave him a hard time saying they had to
 think of their shareholders and their customers.
 And he said to them something like I imagined.
 Listen, do you remember who I said I was on the president of the New York Fed?
 I regulate you guys, okay? Open those accounts and they were still
 reluctant. And I believe he had to tell them
 that the Fed would offer some protection from losses
 if they reopen the accounts. So the accounts were reopen.
 The specialist and the market makers over the counter were informed that
 their accounts were reopened. They came back down to me.
 We reopened the stocks we had closed and the Dow rallied back into
 plus territory. And the American world of finance came
 that close to death, but it was saved.
 Yes, the American financial system came that close to the precipice.
 Not for the first time, nor likely the last, as when people panic,
 things can unravel remarkably quickly as we saw again in 2000 when the
 dot-com bubble burst, and of course in 2008.
 But as the dust settled, it quickly became apparent just how close to the
 edge markets had been, particularly thanks to the increased volatility
 caused by portfolio insurance trades, which had exacerbated the swings in
 both directions, to the point where even the men who had
 devised the strategy must have wondered what they'd unleashed.
 There's an apocryphal story that one of the principles went into
 their crater and said, "Have you sold enough futures
 for the people that we're handling here?"
 And he said, "I can't. I'm afraid if I sell what I need to sell,
 the market will go to zero." And whoever the principle was said,
 "For God's sake, man, don't do that." So they may have
 actually stepped back from where it was. But it was a strange day,
 and one prideful thing to me was, at the end of the week,
 President Reagan sent a congratulatory letter to the
 stock exchange and to the members and specialists
 who were standing up and not shutting the market down and
 making the markets and coming through and
 blasting out the week and keeping the American financial life.
 That was a pretty prideful moment.
 The lessons learned by everyone involved in financial markets around the world
 on Black Monday have undoubtedly stayed with them during the intervening
 three decades. And even though events like this are
 never exactly the same, they offer the kind of on-the-job education that,
 hopefully, not only prepares those who experienced them firsthand to navigate
 the next one a little better, but they give anyone who takes the time
 to study history a chance to avoid making the same mistakes as those who
 went before them. Today, well, while history never repeats,
 it certainly rhymes. Is David Hay? You had that interplay between the program
 trading and the portfolio insurance back 30 years ago,
 and it was kind of this belief that these among the institutions that were
 playing that game, that they had their downside protection
 in place. Instead, of course, it just fed on itself when
 markets started plunging. I think today you probably have a little bit of a
 parallel there, maybe more than a little bit with the VIX
 and a massive short position on the volatility index and
 volatility ETFs, and then what the institutions used to
 control their risk supposedly, the value at risk, the VAR.
 And I think the VIX and the VAR could have kind of a
 synergistic aspect, similar to poor program trading and portfolio
 insurance, so that if we get VIX, the volatility
 spiking materially, and it's certainly due to do that,
 then all of a sudden the algos and the other computer programs that the big
 institutions used to tell them how much risk they can take on will
 completely flip the other way, and they'll be told they need to sell to
 reduce risk, and that's when you could have, in my opinion, kind of the
 same type of chain reaction that you had 30 years ago.
 Bill Secondstein is another who points to the lessons of portfolio
 insurance in the context of today. Had it not been for portfolio
 insurance, in my opinion, there never would have been a crash
 because the market wouldn't have gotten up to where it did. It would have
 gone down as it normally might have in those events and what sort of
 itself out. So I think the lesson looking back
 is that if you see a structure in a market where everyone is
 on the same side of the boat or plans to act
 differently because of something that might then put everyone on the same
 side of the boat, then you have to be worried about it.
 If you look at today's environment, there's a lot of brittleness caused by
 a variation in the same theme, whether it's people selling naked calls,
 the VIX, passive investing, all of those things
 are going to conspire at some point to behave like portfolio insurance.
 The rise of passive investing is something Victor Sperandio also sees
 as a potential source of trouble and whichever way you cut it,
 the spectre of portfolio insurance looms large.
 In this case, as we had portfolio insurance at the time,
 today the investing in ETFs, passive ETFs,
 what you're going to see is deep discounts in those ETFs.
 So you're going to see people who want to sell an ETF and the
 poor value might be 10 and they'll be trading at nine.
 It's going to be it will be devastating that the central banks
 have overdone it. They have taken the magic wand
 and they have abused it.
 So you're set up today and you just need that one stroke.
 But let me just say the aggravation of the decline.
 In this case, will not be portfolio insurance.
 It'll be all this passive investing in stock like ETFs,
 and that will cause the waterfall because there'll be no buyers.
 There's no specialists there to buy them at a reasonable bid.
 So there'll be a deep discount and people will be
 arbinoes. So they'll be buying deep discount ETFs
 and they'll be selling S&P futures.
 And then if they can't get the S&P futures, they'll sell with top OEX 100.
 And if they can't get those off, they'll sell the fangs.
 You know, you can do it in many different ways.
 The QQQs, there's so many different ways to arb these things.
 But the retail will be at the market.
 So it'll be a very harmful day or days when this occurs.
 Michael Oliver's momentum indicator suggests that
 while a correction could happen, a more sanguine approach is warranted,
 at least for the time being.
 I think it's more likely you're going to get a hard wobble.
 The kind that most investors would say, oh boy, buying opportunity.
 You know, 5%, 6% something like that.
 Various indexes might go more like NASDAQ might drop more
 than the S&P.
 But I don't see a top now as being perceived as lethal.
 I think if we're going to get something that turns into a bear,
 it'll become more evident next year based on breaking of annual
 momentum trans structures, which aren't close enough to the current market
 to be able to signal that right now.
 But next year, they will be.
 And it wouldn't take but a good 5% gut kick right now in the
 major US indexes or even the European or Japanese to put them in position
 so that in 2018, they could get quacked for real.
 But what about the man who had the guts to sell everything in his
 portfolio literally moments before the crash began in earnest?
 Here's Richard Pomboy's take on where we stand today.
 The environment, the macro environment is much, much worse
 today, in my opinion, with all the debt and the unfunded pension
 liabilities and the demographics of, you know, in 1987, we didn't have
 that as many people retiring and all that.
 So the demographics today are worse.
 The debt is many, many times worse.
 And the euphoria is the same.
 Those two P's, positivity and pension funds, have a lot of market veterans nervous.
 Here's Victor Sprandio and Michael Lewis.
 In this case, where I would look is not the banks.
 It's the state pension funds.
 The primary, the primary villain here would probably be Illinois.
 When you, in other words, what will fail that will cause the snowball?
 The potential failure is the inability of a pension plan to pay off.
 But if a pension plan of a major state in New Jersey would be a
 potential victim and so would Illinois, perhaps California and even perhaps in New York.
 But it's going to come, the Lehman Brothers will be a pension plan.
 People have never been more positive that the market's going to go up.
 And to me, that is the most dangerous time to belong the market.
 And that's what we learned in 1987.
 Now, the market ended up resuming.
 It's upward climb after that crash.
 But if you are not positioned properly, if you're leveraged,
 if you're in things that are not going to come back,
 you're not going to live to fight another day.
 And so one of the important lessons I learned from that,
 and from subsequently spending a couple of decades in the high-year bond market,
 is that you need to have what would also not seem to live cause.
 A robust portfolio that can survive those kinds of down drafts,
 because they can happen and they can wipe you out.
 Even if in the long-term, the markets do go up.
 It doesn't matter.
 If you're not positioned properly, you're going to get wiped out.
 And so you can never count on tomorrow.
 I mean, it's a good lesson about life as well as markets.
 Lessons about markets and life are all important to learn.
 And one man who has experienced his during October of 1987,
 has shaped the way he has invested ever since, is David Hay.
 David's taken steps to mitigate similar risk CCs in today's markets,
 and is looking for echoes of what he saw trigger the '87 crash.
 A lot of the current market participants were not in the business back then.
 And it's one thing to read about an event even extensively,
 and other thing to actually live through it.
 And to see that kind of absolute price of operation before you're on a high
 start view has been for the last few years,
 that you're better off to give up kind of the last few percentages,
 which maybe has become more than a few percentages of the
 terminal bull market rather than trying to get too cute.
 So I think you just have to systematically de-risk.
 And that's kind of what we've been doing the last two or three years.
 With the caveat that, as you know, there's been some very serious shakeouts.
 I mean, obviously, 2015 was a little rough for the market itself at times.
 Small caps at one point were down 27 percent.
 Energy got absolutely nuked, you know, cut in half.
 But I think to the point of what would set things off,
 when you think back to '87, it was those rapidly rising treasury yields.
 Interestingly, the yield curve back then actually steepened,
 because treasuries were moving up and yields faster than corporates were.
 This time, you don't have that.
 You have so far just kind of a mild increase in treasury yield.
 But what you do have is an increasingly flat yield curve.
 And I think that's something to really watch is that we go into 2018.
 We're probably going to see a combination of a very flat,
 possibly an inverted US yield curve combined with QEs being cut off around the world.
 Other central banks actually raising rates, which is happening.
 So you could have, I think you will have a very different liquidity environment
 next year.
 And I think that's something that a prudent investor really needs to watch very closely.
 Bill Fleckenstein fears that, although the Greenspan put has changed the way
 markets operate and made it harder to capture downside moves from the short side,
 the next big market fall will eventually be magnified
 by the rescue attempts of central bankers over the last 30 years.
 The takeaway is, has not been,
 okay, if we see markets that exhibit a brittleness or are behaving in a way
 partially because they think that they don't have to worry about selling
 or might lead the sale at the same time, we need to be worried that's not
 the lesson that was to have been taken away.
 The lesson that's been taken away is you got to buy the damn dip.
 If we get to a situation where the bond market
 and the dollar or if yen and JGBs start to decline at the same time,
 then I think you have to be on red alert, you know, because then we can have a crash again,
 because the structure of the market that we have today is very crash prone.
 So I think that another crash is almost a certainty,
 but I don't know when.
 And of course, since the Fed and the other central banks sponsored the present
 mania, they're going to ride the rescue.
 So the dynamics totally different.
 I mean, remember, this is not a religion.
 This is about making money.
 And I don't, in order to be able to make money on the short side,
 I have, you have to be able to manage your risk.
 And in order to be able to manage your risk,
 you need certain things that will allow you to be successful at that.
 Well, right now, bad news doesn't even matter.
 So being short is really futile.
 Now that could change next week.
 Well, my plan is to wait until I see something different
 and have some of these variables change in a way that I could figure
 out how to manage the risk of being short.
 I don't feel like it's as important to catch the first piece of this,
 because the bigger trade is going to be when the authorities ride to the rescue.
 And we see how markets view the next version of QE.
 Well, they say, in my opinion, accurately, look, this doesn't work.
 That would be a different outcome than if everyone says, OK, we'll believe you.
 Let's go for another ride.
 So you really need to see that.
 And we could easily be down 22% today.
 If they put on circuit breakers without coming with massive QE,
 that would foment panic.
 If the market continues on its present course, we could have a rally
 into the end of the year.
 And that would set the stage for 18.
 So I'd be looking at how the early part of 18 goes,
 reminiscent of how the market peaked out in 1989 in Tokyo,
 right in the advance of the liberalization of the postal system savings account.
 The perverse of that top-to-market.
 So I don't know exactly what it's going to take.
 But once it starts, I don't have to worry about getting out of stocks.
 And I'm in, because I'm not in stocks.
 And the things I'm more interested in are gold related.
 I believe that those things would sniff out that sort of environment.
 And it would be bullish.
 But in terms of-- so I'm not worried about playing defense into the next crunch.
 I'm worried about-- I'm planning on playing offense.
 But I'm going to wait until I see signs that it's time to act.
 And the other thing is, since we know that the central banks have sponsored
 this, trying to get asset prices to lift the economy,
 you know that they're going to ride to the rescue.
 In the past, it wasn't always so clear that they would, for sure,
 ride to the rescue, ultimately they did.
 But they hadn't really sponsored a market the way they sponsored the bond
 market and by extension the stock market this time around.
 So they are going to feel that the need to act.
 But to Greg Weldon, the similarities to 1987 are not only everywhere,
 but are almost freakish in how they resemble that year.
 To Greg, if you want to try and see the next crash coming,
 you need to look at two key things--
 bond markets and central bankers.
 If you take the period from '85 to '87 and then compare it to 2015
 to where we are now, I mean the similarities are amazing.
 For example, CPI from the period of '86 to '87, when it hit 4 and 1/2,
 it had come from around 2, which is about a 250 basis point rise.
 OK, well, CPI went from 0 to 280 high in February.
 Very similar move.
 I crude oil then, went from $9.75 to $23, about 130% increase.
 If you go back to the period when you just bottomed and crude in,
 I guess it was 2015, you've gone from 26 to a recent high of 55.
 The percent change is around 115%.
 It's almost identical.
 Look at the dollar.
 I mean the dollar is really interesting, too.
 I mean the dollar fell it's 27% back from '85 to '87.
 It's about halfway there now.
 And I think that kind of tells us we're still a little early
 if this is kind of going to work out similarly.
 And I think the risks may be even greater here than they were in '87.
 But if you take the bond market, OK, another good example,
 the bond yield was up roughly 50%, the 10-year bond yield,
 from its low to its high from actually '86 to 1987.
 The bond yield now, if you take the 10-year, is up 75% from its low,
 around 130 to around 230.
 But probably the most striking similarity
 is really good to the stock market.
 The gain in the stock market now from 2016 to 2016 low is 40%.
 The gain in the stock market in 1986 to the peak in '87, 49%, very close.
 If you take the period from the Reagan election to '87, roughly five, six years,
 the gain was 240% altogether.
 Since 2009, the S&P is up 280%.
 Those numbers are very similar across the board.
 The dollar is the only one that's really off, and the direction is still the same.
 So to me, when you tie that in with some of the macro dynamics we see here,
 the bond yields were the catalyst then.
 To me, bond yields will be the catalyst now, and the setup is very similar.
 And so all eyes on the Fed, all eyes on what they do, all eyes on the bond market,
 you know as well as I do.
 Sovereign debt is something that people have swept under the rug as if it's been fixed.
 It is fixed.
 We know that.
 I mean, most of the smart people out there listening understand this.
 $20 trillion average maturity, less than six years,
 with a coupon yield on average of around 2%.
 The five-year note is pushing 2% here.
 And above that, you exponentially increase the cost of refunding your debt.
 When you look at the interest payments on the debt,
 it's almost at a record high here, despite the fact that interest rates are still,
 you know, at least, you know, in the short end in the official Fed funds rate and even deposit rates,
 still close to record lows.
 It's the same as true for the consumer, who's already showing signs of some retrenchment and erosion.
 So I see a lot of similarities in the, in the setup of the markets,
 and I see even more risk here in terms of kind of the macro fundamentals behind it.
 And then you tie in this whole expectations around tax reform and around fiscal spending.
 And yeah, guess what?
 The global economy is doing really well right now.
 But the risk to me is in the US.
 The risk is the bond market.
 And that is very similar to what it was in August of 1987.
 In October 1987, just seems like yesterday to me,
 you know, I had my own experiences and I was a young trader
 and just got completely blindsided by the whole thing.
 And it really left a mark on me for the rest of my career.
 And it taught me at a very early stage what can happen.
 You know, these bad events can happen and do happen.
 And I think for me, going through that in such a formative stage of my career
 was was incredibly valuable to me.
 You know, Grant, it's crazy because I knew almost nothing about the 1987 crash.
 And so we started researching this.
 In my mind, as a 30 or something year old, everything is about 2008.
 You know, it seems that everyone's memory stops at the last big thing.
 Well, it was, '87 was a very different type of event,
 but obviously with a very similar outcome.
 And I think that's that's the important thing to take away from this.
 No matter how it happens, these big corrections and markets,
 they're inevitable at some point.
 And I think our guests this week have given people a lot of food for thought,
 a lot of things to watch out for,
 and shared some remarkable stories from what really was a moment in time.
 Well, sadly, that concludes another episode of Adventures in Finance.
 Before we leave you, you guessed it, the good old legal disclaimer.
 Anything you heard on this episode should not be considered as trading advice.
 These are our opinions and your opinions of our contributors.
 So do your fundamental research, chart the technicals,
 place your stops as always, and please do trade responsibly.
 Now, you can't read anything about the world of finance
 without a reference to blockchain and Bitcoin these days.
 But where did the blockchain start?
 How did it grow?
 What did it mean then?
 And what does it mean for us now?
 Next week, we'll find out when we revisit the origins of Bitcoin and the blockchain.
 Again, don't forget to visit realvision.com/edgeofthecliff
 to download the edge of the cliff for full chart pack.
 And if you have an interesting question about this week's show
 or anything else for that matter,
 then we would obviously love to hear that.
 So please send us an email or leave us a voice note at podcast@realvision.com.
 If you enjoyed what you heard, then you can subscribe to us on iTunes
 and James, tell them about the reviews.
 Yeah, leave a review.
 We love reviews.
 Thanks for that James.
 And as always, to keep up to date with the latest interviews,
 research publications and podcast episodes,
 then do follow us on Twitter @realvision.
 You'll also find us if you scan the dark web of Facebook and LinkedIn,
 just search for real vision.
 And if you're so inclined, you can follow me on Twitter @ttmygh.
 And if you want to see me beat Grant with followers,
 please add me @aifjames.
 Yes, tell all your friends with a big disclaimer.
 That's it from us.
 We will see you back here next week.
 Thanks for listening.
 [MUSIC PLAYING]
 [MUSIC PLAYING]
 [MUSIC PLAYING]
 [MUSIC PLAYING]
 [MUSIC PLAYING]
 [MUSIC PLAYING]
 [BLANK_AUDIO]
