
I have four pieces of advice from people.
Number one, get good sleep.
Number two, exercise.
Number three, diet, number four, meditation.
And if you want to do that, it's very simple.
You get the calm meditation.
You get the eight sleep sleep.
You get the fit bod for fitness.
I'm knitting that intra sensual and you're wrecked.
What a grister is just talking about his investments.
Those are the four things you've always thought about.
The Four Essentials.
You get a good a fitness system.
This is brought to you by my NGO, which is all in NGO.
USA gave us 18 million less.
You guys, I forgot to tell you about it.
But don't worry, it's in an offshore account for all of us.
When we get back to Ethiopia and Vietnam,
we have an all-in vessel built there, OK?
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Let your winter slide.
Brain man, David Sacks.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
And as said, we open-source it to the fans,
and they've just gone crazy with it.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
All right, everybody.
Welcome back to the All-in Podcast, the number one,
MAGA, finance, business, and personal optimization health.
Yes, we are now larger in the health space than Huberman,
Tim Ferriss, and Peter Atia combined.
Yes, we've really started to grow the pod.
And if you want to, you can subscribe to the podcast
on x.com, YouTube, Spotify, and all those other places,
especially if you want to have an incredibly positive world
enlightening conversation with Ray Dalio.
You can tune in, too.
Friedberg and Ray Dalio on the channel.
Great conversation.
It's gotten 300, 400,000 views already on YouTube.
How's the feedback been, David?
I've got so much great feedback on you.
Ray Dalio, is it the end of the empire, or were we coming back?
What's awesome is a lot of the recommendations
he shared as becoming policy, it seems,
for the Trump administration.
Elon and Bessent and others in the administration
have echoed trying to get government deficit below 3% of GDP.
That seems to be the economic, magical number.
And if you can do that, rates drop.
I think that's resonated.
It was great to have him publish that a couple of weeks ago,
talk with us about it.
It's great.
Great bonus content from the team at All-In.
Today, we're super excited to have our friend,
Antonio Grazias, joining the show.
Antonio is the CEO of Valor Equity, partners.
And he's made some solid investments.
He was one of the first investors in Tesla, SpaceX,
Thena, tons of great, or he's a second investor in Thena
after me.
Welcome to the program, Antonio.
He puts more in.
Thank you, Jason.
I was also with you, too, by the way.
Yes, yes.
You did the series A, I believe, for the bank.
Yeah, I found you.
We were in the B.
You were in the B again.
Yes, you were in the Sherbin round.
OK, well, welcome to the program, Antonio Grazias.
And we've got a full docket today.
And we might even have a special caller
from the White House today.
No promises, but you never know.
We are 17 days into the Trump 2.0 presidency.
And it seems like the main character gentleman is Doge,
the Department of Government Efficiency.
And they seem to have found a little known agency, USA.
Let's unpack it and talk about USAID and Doge,
maybe in free acts.
The first one, let me just educate the audience
on what USAID is and then get y'all's general reaction to it.
Most Americans probably haven't heard of USAID.
It stands for the United States Agency
for International Development.
It's established by JFK by an executive order
back in 1961.
Wall Street Journal summed up its purpose as, quote,
"make friends and influence countries in the American interest."
According to the US Gov website, the purpose of USAID
is to extend assistance to countries recovering from disaster.
You got a budget of about $45 billion a year under Biden.
And that's about $150 per American per year.
They have at least 10,000 employees or did.
And as of 2023, they had programs in 130 countries,
obviously there's 195 countries in the world.
And the budget doubled under Biden from 26 to 45.
The budget was between 15 and 20 billion
during Trump's first term.
But the White House and, I guess, Elon and the Doge team
found out about this USAID, went in there
and found all kinds of interesting spend,
$2.5 million to fund EV charging stations in Vietnam,
$2 million for sex changes in LGBTQ activism in Guatemala,
$1.5 million to a Serbian LGBTQ group, 70K for a DEI musical,
47K for our transgender opera in Colombia.
The DEI musical, by the way, is an irony.
So if you make it to Galway, you can see that DEI musical.
This went on and on.
And it has become quite a story.
Antonio, you're our guest here this week.
You and I and Saks and Elon spent a little time at Twitter
during the takeover, where I think a lot of these techniques
were first put into action.
Your thoughts on what's happening with Doge?
I mean, look, Jason, first of all,
I thought you guys were having me.
It's great to see everyone.
You can see the musical.
I like to see musical.
I booked it, we're all going to the musical in Galway.
What is it called?
Is there actually a name of the musical?
The musical, yeah.
It's DEI.
Come up, the musical.
Oh, man, it's a heartwarming story.
I apologize.
I'm getting a job.
Sorry, guys.
I'm not qualified for.
I apologize.
Yeah, so I think the Doge story maybe
starts with the Twitter takeover.
Yeah.
Right.
So Twitter was spewing the woke mind virus in the world,
which is why Inland did begin with.
And when we got there, as you know,
it was basically breaking even.
And there was going to be $12.5-ish billion
of debt to the company.
So $1.5 million in just cost, there
was no money to pay, which led to the turnaround, I think,
which was the biggest turnaround, like of all time.
It's literally the biggest turnaround,
I think, ever in history.
Second biggest tech deal ever done.
80% of the people gone.
That doesn't include all the contractors that were there.
And the company's not servicing its debt,
and they just priced yesterday.
They're one of their bank deals at $0.97.
So this is a huge win.
It means the company's doing extremely well.
Other people bought the bank debt.
And then the bank debt traded up to a little over 98.
So 98.58 is a giant business successor,
a rousing business successor.
Jason, you were there for part of it.
You saw it.
It was a disaster.
This place was-- it was tampons in the bathrooms
and every woken you could possibly imagine.
And no one in the office, it was so bad
that the pens had gone dry in the conference rooms,
which is incredible.
And I think that that's how the--
So you mean the pens had gone dry
because they were never being used?
Or because they were being used so much?
They were never being used.
We got there on the Halloween weekend,
and we started whiteboarding.
And the original work.
Next time, no ink.
Yeah, I mean, everything.
It's incredible.
But flowers were impeccable, food being made fresh every day,
for thousands of people, and thrown away three times a day
tossed in the garbage, wouldn't give it to the homeless.
It was just-- it was shockingly bad.
bureaucracy gone mad.
Bad incentives, people don't care.
So it was both--
I think this turned into two things.
One was just stop the Wolf Mind virus.
The interesting thing is they do extra brand safety checks
there now, and they have 99% rating and brand safety now.
So stop the Wolf Mind virus and go in the world.
Number one, number two, fix the company.
And both have happened.
It's been a couple of years now, right?
Three years now, and both have happened.
Not even three years, two and a half years, really.
And both have happened.
And I think you take that-- that was sort of the warm up
act for what's going on at Doge, which
is the president of the United States, President Trump,
wants to make him very great again.
And that, I think, begins with making the government great.
And you've got to fix it.
It's a turnaround.
This is the biggest turnaround of all time.
And President Trump has the courage to do it.
And he's got a great ally, and he'll
have to make it happen in Doge.
And so the numbers are pretty easy, right?
We're spending $6.5 trillion.
We bring in $4.5 trillion.
We've got to find $2 trillion somewhere.
It just costs $1 trillion a year.
The bond markets were going up.
The bond bond was going up a lot, because people
didn't believe that you couldn't stop spending,
creating inflation.
You see those trading down now.
As Doge is starting to take effect, we'll see it's real.
The stuff you were talking about, it's sort of extraordinary.
What's happening in the--
I mean, I said this is probably the right fraud, waste and abuse.
I think it's kind of 10% of the budget is probably fraud.
I think it might be low, actually.
So you're talking about $650 billion, a trillion in waste.
I think that's probably about right.
That alone fixes the problem.
But it's really serious about it chasing for me
and what scared me when we first started thinking about this
and looking, I'm not there full-time in and out a little bit
and trying to help write Can, but I don't there full-time.
When I thought-- when this started,
I thought we had a democracy, but it turned into a bureaucracy.
OK?
What I'm afraid of now is we have a bureaucracy
that is about to turn into a kleptocracy.
I mean, a Latin American-style kleptocracy.
OK, the stuff you're talking about,
that is pure fraud.
And you're making some jokes out of it, the D.I. musical.
But if you go into the data that's coming out of USAID,
what you find is there's a lot of political contributions
going there, Politico itself being funded by USAID.
I mean, that is pure corruption.
That's like a Latin American-style autocracy.
And we cannot let it go there.
I mean, I think this happened just in the meantime.
And I'm super grateful to all the people there.
There's 80 plus people there, all patriots.
It's gone full-time.
OK.
So, Shamatha, you've been watching this here from Antonio,
which are general take on what we saw in the first,
I don't know, 20 days of doge, or no, 15 days.
Sorry, it's 15 days of doge.
So let me try to give you a little bit of historical context
because I think that that's important.
I think whenever I hear so many people breathlessly
saying some version of WTF, as if this is totally new,
it's not new.
And I'll give you two examples, but one that I really
want to double-click on.
The two examples I'll give you is that in 1941,
the Truman Committee was formed because there was a fear
that the spending by the Defense Department
was completely out of whack.
And over the next six or seven years,
and this is really what gave Truman the credibility
to them become Roosevelt's vice president,
was they found incredible levels of waste, fraud,
and abuse during the war, before the war effort,
and then after Pearl Harbor during the war process.
Over seven years, that committee, and this is in 1941 dollars,
they were tasked and budgeted with only $20,000 or $30,000.
OK.
Over the next six years, they spent less than a million.
Inflation adjusted to 2023, this is where I found the data,
was about 6 and 1/2 million they spent.
You know how much they saved?
It's estimated they saved somewhere between $10 to $15 billion
in 1941.
That's a quarter of a trillion 2023 dollars.
The second example is we did this under President Clinton.
And that was called the National Partnership
for Reinventing Government.
So the first thing that I think it's important to acknowledge
is this is not new.
We've done doge twice before.
Both have been successful.
The Harry Truman one was incredibly important,
because it really set guardrails for how this can be done.
Everything in that committee was a Senate committee,
was unanimous, so it was Republicans and Democrats
that found waste, fraud, and abuse everywhere.
They saved an enormous amount of money.
The second, which is interesting, is these last two versions
of doge were driven and led by Democrats,
the same people today, who are basically saying,
hey, hold on a second.
We have congressional committees,
or we have inspector generals.
And they lacked the awareness to know
that their own party was the driving force for this
two times before.
And I think it's important to just acknowledge
that those methods are not good anymore, right?
Because I think what we're finding early days
is the rot is super pervasive.
There's no accountability.
And so I think you need people to look at it with fresh eyes.
And what is doge at the end of the day?
What they are are read-only auditors of the truth.
And the press secretary in the White House
made this very clear.
It's incredible the power that read-only access gives you.
All that allows you to do is just take the data
and present the data.
They can't manipulate it.
And what they're able to do is publish all of this stuff
in real time, and that's why this is so important.
Because if it went into a congressional committee,
to be honest with you, it would sit there
and stew for six, seven, eight, nine months.
You would maybe get small little tidbits of it,
but now instead you're just getting the full thrust of it.
And what is the biggest thing that I find concerning?
I think it's what Antonio said,
which is that the media who are supposed to be
this intermediary layer that's totally objective
between the government and the people,
we're not independent at all,
but had all kinds of hidden incentives,
eight million dollars to Politico,
several million dollars to the BBC.
I think it's important to ask what's going on.
And by the way, that also has historical context.
This is exactly what happened in the '60s and '70s,
where it turned out that record companies
were paying DJs to pay songs.
There was a huge set of lawsuits and trial cases,
and the result was a change in the law, right?
And we call that Paola now,
which is you cannot take this money without disclosing it.
And so had this money been absorbed by these entities
and actually disclosed, maybe we'd be okay,
but Nick, I sent you a link,
maybe you can throw it on the screen for these guys.
It's a very simple manifestation of this cycle.
We talked about this guys,
and we didn't realize how connected it all was,
but we were asking ourselves during the election cycle last year,
why are all these articles buried?
Why aren't we really getting the truth?
And it turns out that the people who were responsible
for telling the truth, somewhere along the chain,
were cajoled or just told not to tell the truth,
influenced by all of this back channel money
that was going back and forth
from the government to these folks.
- Okay, yeah, let me just give some numbers
to what you were referencing there.
The USAID organization has been giving money,
as have other agencies to journals, databases, and subscriptions.
There's probably some amount of that that makes sense.
However, when we look at this,
during Trump 1, spend on political was averaging
around 1.3 million a year,
but it suddenly ballooned up to 8 million a year under Biden,
and you can see the quarterly payments here on this chart.
So there's some normal amount to spend on publications
or for a library at an organization.
And so what we're looking here is all federal agencies,
and suddenly during Biden,
there is a very suspicious ramp up in spend to Politico.
All of this is breaking.
A lot of this hasn't been verified yet,
so we'll put that caveat on it.
And then there is a number of 34 million
that's been floating around.
That's all years back to 2008,
not just 2024, less people have that number,
juxtaposed or misattributed.
When Politico was acquired back in 2021,
they were doing about 200 million in revenue,
so this would be about 4% of their revenue.
It's pretty significant.
The BBC also received 2.7 million in funding from USAID in 2023.
That was 8% of their annual income.
That's a little suspicious.
Thomson Reuters, which is the consulting arm of Reuters.
They have received $120 million
from the federal government since 2011.
That's got to be looked at and double clicked on.
And half of that came during the Biden administration.
New York Times hasn't actually received
well that much, 370K from the federal government last year.
Under Biden, it went from 100K a year to like 300.
So the New York Times data has been cleaned up a little bit.
All of this is to say there's spending going on
with the press that certainly doesn't look good
and should be verified and challenged, obviously.
And we are in a breaking news environment.
So we'll see how that information shakes out over time,
which is one of the great things I think about Doge,
is they're getting this information out there.
And citizen journalists are looking
at public databases, Friedberg.
And we're having a conversation about this.
A conversation two years ago, Friedberg,
when you kept harping on every episode about our debt
and about the interest payments two or three years ago,
you were way ahead of the curve.
And now here we are.
We didn't think anybody would ever take this cause up.
And now it is the cause of the moment.
What are your thoughts on the first two weeks of Doge,
Friedberg?
- Magnificent.
- Okay. - Magnificent.
I mean, what else is there to say?
- Eggplant emoji. - Eggplant emoji.
Yes, this is the eggplant emoji, it's what we needed.
If you zoom out on what Doge is doing,
I think the best way to describe it is zero based budgeting.
And in organizations that go through zero based budgeting,
you do a cycle typically annually,
where you take all of your op acts,
all of your expenses and running a company
or running an organization down to the studs,
you take it down to zero, and you rebuild it up
and you say, what are we trying to achieve this year
from first principles based on that set of objectives?
Those goals, what do we need to do?
What's the minimal expense we need to run?
You don't start with last year's numbers and say,
what else do we need to do and start to add on top of that?
You really do a hard level, high degree of scrutiny
on every dollar moving out.
And that's what Doge is effectively doing.
They're doing a zero based budgeting
on the federal government.
They're looking at every line item
and they're asking the fundamental question
which I don't think we talk about
in the public discourse enough,
which is what is the essential role of government?
And there is a great debate to be had around that point.
Should government be providing humanitarian aid
in international markets?
That's a good debate to be had.
Should the government be providing security to nations
that can't provide security for themselves?
Does the US government have a role in that?
Should the government be providing loans
for people to go to universities?
Should the government be providing loans
for people to buy homes that are overpriced?
Etcetera, etcetera, etcetera.
And as we start to ask the questions
of how we're spending money,
I think it ends up leading to the most important questions,
which is what is the essential role of government?
Which I think is the debate that needs to be had
in order for the democracy to last.
So I'm very happy to see the effort of Doge.
And I think that it's the beginning
of what I hope will be kind of a long term process
of asking the fundamental questions
about the central government.
- And Antonio, zero-based budgeting
was the first thing you sort of introduced
when the Twitter takeover happened,
just what do we need in terms of design?
What does the sales team need to hit these sales numbers?
How many servers do we need?
And my lord, the waste fraud and abuse at that company
was shocking.
They had buildings that were $100 or square foot.
If I remember correctly,
that were used for storage of the furniture
from the previous building that had been upgraded
and we're storing them in class A office space,
you reference the commissary,
20 people were having lunch a day,
but they had never ratcheted down the amount of food
they were making.
So each meal was about $800 on average
when you did the math for those 20 meals,
just in the San Francisco office.
Maybe you could talk a little bit about
how the shock and awe campaign
of just freezing spending and then seeing,
hey, what actually is necessary
to accomplish this task, worked out at Twitter,
and then how you see that being executed
inside of our government.
- Yeah, thanks Jason.
It was pretty extraordinary actually.
The Twitter experience, the first thing you do
in a turn like that is try and get the checkbook
and just turn payments off and to see what happens
because they're less well that shouldn't be getting paid
and sometimes they complain and sometimes you find
the people that complain them loudest
are the ones who are coming to the worst fraud.
They're the worst fraudsters in the whole game, right?
The worst quifters, the ones who are saying,
they're crying the most amount of foul.
And the problem, at least in Twitter,
there were financial statements.
Like we could actually, there was an audit financial statement
and they were basically, they weren't some ways correct.
I would say there was some issues with it,
with the user growth, DAOs, et cetera, and Senate plans,
but the actual, like the cash flow numbers
were pretty much correct.
Here the problem is much, much deeper.
And it makes the zero to base budgeting question much harder,
which is the way the government works,
a department just basically asks for money from treasury
and they send it out.
We all run businesses.
There's a reconciliation process.
You have a contract, you issue a PO against it,
something comes in, you check that it came in,
services is rendered, and then you issue a payable
and then some month later you pay it, right?
That doesn't happen to the US government.
There is, that process is broken.
It used to happen, it's broken now.
And so literally, money's flowing out.
I used to ask myself this question,
why are the numbers always revised?
Why are they always wrong?
How can the government know how much money it's paying?
Just hit the button, the computer, and figure it out.
The problem is, that button doesn't exist.
We spent time early on, it was more like
what we were trying to track through.
Like, how does the money actually flow?
No one could tell us how it actually flows.
Where is it going out?
People didn't know.
And it's totally crazy, and it's the reason, yes.
- Will you all go through Treasury, Antonio?
Or like, can you just explain that to us?
- Well, so I will try to explain it to you.
I have full command of it.
I'm not sure anyone does quite yet.
It goes to Treasury, ultimately.
But it was supposed to flow through,
the way it was supposed to work in the,
it was changed in the 70s, in the 70s, in 1973.
The NYX administration, in '71, we go back,
they came off the Gold Center, which allowed deficits.
In '73, at the later of the Nixon presidency,
Congress took away from the presidency,
the executive power, this is called the Portionments,
which was the power of the executive to stop spending.
So Nixon was abusing it by stopping and seeing it in want.
And so Congress took away from what that means today
is the executive, as he reaches in,
it's very hard to just stop payments.
So what's happening is, the government is put in a process
where they would just have an authorized
executive kind of stamp a bill that got paid.
That broke, and I don't know when it broke,
but it broke sometime.
So the money flow now, department,
gets a budget authorized to it by Congress,
it goes to OMB, OMB allocates the budget,
that department then just sends a money request
to Treasury, to pay.
It is not reconciled against what happened.
This is one of the reasons.
- And that's it, there's no, there's no controller.
There's no controller function,
like there is in a normal company.
- 100%, there is no control, there is no controller,
there's no reconciliation, the reason they can't pass audits,
okay, the reason this happens
is because you can't audit something
you haven't reconciled.
You know, the only audit that I've seen
is actually from the Social Security Administration.
And when you read it, I've got one
at part as you've read the thing.
It has, it's just riddled material weaknesses
that are probably awful.
- Do you think there are individuals that have made
like millions or billions of dollars
from mispayments overseas?
Like, is this kind of what's gone on
in the missing money in Ukraine, do you think?
Like it's kind of found its way to the wrong places?
- Yeah, I mean, so what I would,
I don't know what happened to Ukraine, I don't.
- Such a crazy story.
- Yeah, it is shocking about Ukraine.
I will say that I have a business experience
trying to work in businesses that had
medicated Medicare's payments.
I wanted to make that better, right?
We used this to make the world better.
And we just stopped 'cause we found so much fraud.
I mean, I'm certain that we literally have a rule here,
government payor in those areas,
if it's more than like a third of the business,
we don't do it.
And in the services space, this is why.
We just found, we found continuous fraud
in the companies we were looking at investing in.
- Yeah, just threading these things together.
You know, the really interesting thing with the Twitter
pausing of payments was, you know,
at some point we were in a meeting,
you know, at 1 a.m. on a Saturday.
And it was like, hey, let's turn the credit cards off
to see what bounces and, you know, what happens.
And then, of course, we start getting calls.
And people started routing, obviously,
because they knew SACs was there,
you were there, I would say.
Hey, you know, a company who I shared an investor with
or, you know, another company said,
hey, you know, we're not getting paid for this.
And it was like some SAC software
that nobody was using, et cetera.
So you start figuring out, to your point,
okay, is this software even being used?
There was so much software and services that had been paid
that nobody had ever logged in to set up.
So it was just being paid as pure graph.
Now, you said, Antonio, correctly,
the people who come first, like,
they're probably the ones who are in on the biggest grift,
because, hey, you know, I figured out how to grift this money,
how USA got to the top of the doge list,
I think is one of the most interesting aspects of this story.
So if you remember, on January 21st,
Trump decided he would do a bunch of executive orders, right?
And one of them was to pause foreign aid for 90 days.
Okay, this seems reasonable.
We got to take care of our country.
That was part of his mandate for becoming
the 47th president of the United States.
So a couple of days later,
the White House said, hey, this USA leadership
is trying to circumvent the executive order.
In other words, they're just going to keep paying people,
even though the executive order came out.
That alerted the doge team.
So Elon confirmed this on X.
He said, quote, all doge did was check to see
which federal organizations were violating
the president's executive orders the most.
Turned out to be USA's, so that became our focus.
And according to NBC, security officials at USA
tried to prevent doge from even getting into the building
or accessing the systems to your point Antonio.
The person probably who's got the most to hide
is the one who's going to fight the most
over the weekend, doge gained access to USAID.
And then people started tweeting out
all of this, you know, crazy spend
and things that any American who looks at it and says,
wait a second, if we haven't fixed the goddamn water
in Flint, Michigan, why are we sending money to Galway
or in Ireland to do a DEI musical?
This makes no sense.
And that's, I think, the key piece of this Antonio is,
can you win the hearts and minds of Americans?
Because some of this stuff, I don't know if it's legal
or it's not legal or it's against protocol
or it is protocol we're going to find out.
There's been tons of legal cases and lawsuits
that have been filed.
But to your point, this is how Elon found out
about USAID.
- Jake, let me ask you a question.
Where does that place you in your political philosophy
around the importance of human rights abroad?
- Great, great question.
You know, I've always felt that the West should act
in unison and if the United States is the greatest economy
or the strongest, we should lead.
There is something called the Universal Declaration
of Human Rights.
The United States, Eleanor Roosevelt wrote this at the UN
and everybody tries to hit those notes.
I think it's great that we try to reduce suffering
in the world, but I think we should be doing it
not unilaterally and not to try to manipulate governments.
And that's the piece of this that USAID is obviously a grift
where people are trying to steal money
for their pet projects.
And I don't think they're acting in unison
and above board to look and say,
okay, where's the most suffering in the world?
How can we help that?
You know, that to me seems like a noble thing to do.
And if the United States has the budget
to help fight AIDS in Africa or, you know, poverty,
do you think that there's a chance
that some of these human rights issues were embellished
to try to get more money?
- Well, I do think, you know, I did this tweet recently.
So yes is the answer.
If you look at Amnesty International,
Amnesty International where I worked
was one of my first jobs.
They were working on people who were imprisoned,
tortured, raped, murdered, systematic murder
of dissidents for freedom of speech,
freedom of assembly, religion, et cetera.
And then somewhere along the line, you know,
the Amnesty International was tweeting about trans rights
and that's the big focus.
This is a very small amount of, you know,
people on the planet.
And I don't think that those human rights violations
in any way relate to the tragedy we're seeing
of people being murdered, tortured, raped and cained
and beheaded in certain places in the world.
So there is a way to look at suffering
and say we should handle this first.
And yes, somebody who, you know,
feels they got misgendered.
Maybe that's way down the priority list
compared to systematic rape of women in these,
you know, war zones.
Those will be the high order bits.
And so this thing has gotten,
the other fascinating thing I think about USAIDO,
which I like to get your thoughts on Tchamath is,
at what point did this switch from being the left
saying we should not intervene, right?
The left's position always in the 80s, 90s,
when we were growing up was we shouldn't be doing
these operatives in other countries.
We should let democracy flow,
let these countries figure it out for themselves.
We shouldn't be doing empire building.
We shouldn't be doing imperialism.
And then all of a sudden, now it's just such a grift
that I think everybody's got their hands in the pie.
Lindsey Graham's on some nonprofit
that gets money from this.
I don't know if that's above board or not.
Everybody, a lot of people who are formerly in government
seem to be part of this NGO train.
So the whole thing's just turned out to be a grift
and it's a bi-partisan grift, obviously.
- I think the biggest-- - It's infuriating.
- I think the biggest thing that we will have to confront
is that many of the things that we thought
were issues or problems
may have actually been somewhat embellished
because of this money cycle.
- Sure.
- And I think that that's gonna cause a lot of people
to feel really, they'll probably feel really foolish
about some of the decisions they made.
All the attempts at cancellation
are gonna look really dumb in hindsight.
- Yeah, all right.
- Am I some graduate or friend David Sachs here
who's coming online? - Oh, okay, here he is.
David, look at it. - Which is getting good.
And the one thing I wanna point out,
this goes way back.
I think maybe more than a decade ago,
David tried to explain to me that Neocon's
had taken over American foreign policy
and they were, well, your question about,
why did the Democrats change,
why did Republicans change, et cetera?
The Neocon's took over from policy in both sides,
Democrats and Republicans,
and populated out this very activist muster stance,
which is bad for America.
And I think, Jason, that answers your questions to why
the Democrats shifted.
- All right, with us is David Sachs.
How you doing, brother?
Are you literally in the White House?
I'm in the E-O-B.
- Ah, okay.
- There's like a podcast studio actually in the E-O-B.
- Oh, fantastic.
And you're wearing a suit every day.
- Yeah, no, you're right.
I have to wear a suit and tie every day.
I was just listening on your conversation about Doge.
Jake, I'm surprised that you never figured out a way
to get involved in this USA.
(all laughing)
I mean, everybody's on the take except you.
What's going on?
- I had known, I would have started an NGO.
Where's bio, Geo?
- You had everything except the money laundering.
You had the grit, you had the virtue signaling.
You had it all except the actual money.
- Let me up level this for a second, okay?
So we knew the US government runs a $2 trillion deficit
every year.
We're in debt almost $40 trillion.
And we also knew that anytime anyone tries to cut anything
in Washington, the whole city screens bloody murder, okay?
So the question is just why?
Well, now we know the money is all going to them.
It's like round tripping to them.
New York Times getting paid.
Politico getting paid.
Bill Crystal perennial warmonger getting paid.
Ukraine getting paid.
Like 11 out of 12 publications, Ukraine getting paid.
- Incredible.
- Victor Orban, who's the Prime Minister of Hungary,
was saying that he's very popular and hungry.
His political opposition funded by USAID in Poland.
The left wing political opposition funded by USAID
and on and on and on it goes.
- BBC, BBC, you wonder why everyone in the UK, so yeah.
- I couldn't believe that BBC is getting paid.
- Every left wing organization in the world
seems to be getting paid by this slush fund at USAID,
which disperses about $50 billion a year.
That's a billion dollars a week.
It's actually a lot of money.
And so it makes you wonder the left in general
tries to portray itself as a movement of the people,
that it's grassroots.
This is the exact opposite.
This is AstroTurf.
This is basically money coming from the top down
out of Washington to fund all of these groups,
maybe not even in the United States,
like all over the world.
So it makes you wonder what is the real level
of local support for these left wing policies
all over the world?
- Yeah, crazy.
So you did a big announcement this week on crypto
and creating a framework finally.
I caught some of it.
Maybe you could just tell us from the bottom up,
what is the mandate from the president
and what is your advice to him
on how to make crypto move out of the shadows, offshore ICOs,
craziness to legitimacy.
What's the plan here to legitimize and regulate crypto?
- Well, the plan was really spelled out
by President Trump in his week one EO on crypto.
And it's all spelled out in there.
The principal's administration on crypto,
the president said he wants to support
the responsible use and growth of digital assets
and blockchains across every sector of the economy.
So the principals are all there.
And yesterday I was invited up to Capitol Hill
to meet with the chairman of the important committees
that will be, that basically govern crypto.
And so we had a press conference there
to announce the legislative plan.
You can see there there's Chairman Tim Scott,
who's the chair of the Senate Banking Committee
to my left and then to my right is French Hill,
who's the chairman of the House Financial Services Committee.
And then to his right is John Boseman,
who's the chair of the Senate Agriculture Committee.
And then to the left of Tim Scott is G.T. Thompson,
who's the chair of the House Agriculture Committee.
He's out of frame right now.
But those are the four committees that govern crypto.
And you may ask, why is the Agriculture Committee
involved in crypto?
And the reason is because the ad committee supervises
the CFTC, the Commodities Futures Trading Commission,
because commodities all came out of agriculture.
So it's interesting, you need four committees
across the House and Senate to get legislation done on crypto.
It's not just House and Senate,
it's actually two committees in each of the House and Senate.
And so this is the first time where we've had four chairman
of the four key committees all come together
and say that they're ready to support crypto legislation.
There were a lot of people on acts who felt like
this wasn't a mind blowing announcement.
They wanted something that they could trade on right away.
That's not what this was.
This was basically a statement of commitment
from the chairs of the four committees
that we're gonna get legislation done this year,
maybe in the next six months.
I mean, that's really the goal.
And we've never had that before.
So that is pretty monumental.
- I used to work in this because when I first launched
Climate Court back in the day,
we actually were selling commodity contracts online.
So we set ourselves up as an exempt commodity trading platform.
And so I remember all this old legislation,
there was the Commodity Futures Modernization Act,
if I remember when they deregulated the energy markets.
But one of the futures of the Commodity Futures Modernization Act
was that they created this concept
of an exempt commodity contract,
which was where you're not delivering a physical good.
And that's basically what weather derivatives were
and energy derivatives and other kind of indices
were created that didn't have a tangible physical supply.
And it was still kind of shoveled in the commodities world.
That's why the legacy of all this stuff
kind of sitting with agriculture.
Is that the way this is likely gonna move forward?
Is it's gonna look like a new extension
of exempt commodities and kind of treated like that
versus being securities?
- The question you're describing is called market structure.
What are the definitions gonna be?
Because digital assets can be many things.
Some digital assets are crypto currencies.
They're actually currencies.
Then there's things that are crypto securities.
Then there's things that are commodities.
Bitcoin actually is regulated as a commodity right now.
And then you've got things that aren't securities
or commodities or collectibles, like NFTs, things like that.
So there's all these different categories.
And one of the things that the market needs
is just clarity around the definitions
so that founders know what the rules of the road are
and they can actually just comply with them.
So giving them those definitions
and describing how a crypto project could start,
for example, as a security and eventually
the protocol could become decentralized enough
or maybe it becomes a commodity.
That whole idea, that's called market structure.
And there was a bill in the last Congress by French Hill
who is the chair of the house financial services committee now.
That passed the house with 71 Democratic votes.
So it was fairly bipartisan,
but then it went nowhere in the Senate
because frankly, the bank committee at that time
was run by Sherrod Brown who was anti-crypto.
So it got stopped in the Senate right away.
Now we have Republican control of the Senate
and Tim Scotts the new chair of the Senate banking committee
and he's expressed support.
So I think now we could get a bill on market structure
like fit 21, again, which was French Hill's bill last Congress.
I think we could do a revised and updated version
of this Congress and that was one of the things they all,
the Chairman expressed support for.
So I think there's a pretty good chance
we could get this done in the next six months.
- What's the opposition, Sacks?
I guess it feels to me like with the market structure
question being addressed and answered,
you would have also more protection for consumers
'cause now businesses know the rules of the road.
They follow them through structure
that protects consumers, et cetera, et cetera.
Why would people be opposed to moving this forward,
moving the legislation forward,
getting this all behind us?
- Well, I think this is an area
where there's a really good chance
of having bipartisan support.
We did in the last Congress, like I mentioned,
that the House bill got over 70 Democratic votes.
I think in the Senate, we're gonna need seven votes,
some Democrat votes to get to 60, right?
Which is the number you need
if you don't go through the reconciliation process.
And I think there's a good chance this passes
with significant Democratic support as well as Republican.
It's not gonna be unanimous or anything like that
because there are still forces that are hostile to crypto
in Washington.
- You think it's gonna be a discrete bill or do you,
I mean, it seems like you're gonna have to get
a border security and energy and budget bill passed.
So it seems like everything's looking
towards reconciliation.
In which case, would this be an adjunct like an add-on?
- The question is what you can get through reconciliation.
So in order for a bill to go through
the reconciliation process,
where you only need basically 50 votes,
it has to have a budgetary impact
or predominantly a budgetary impact.
I think it's called the bird rule.
And that rule was definitely pushed pretty hard
in the last administration.
You remember that the Biden administration
got the inflation reduction act passed through reconciliation
and all those subsidies for clean energy or whatever.
So they've opened the window pretty wide
on what can go through reconciliation.
But that's the question.
There's one other bill that I think
is gonna move pretty quickly here too.
So I just mentioned the market structure bill.
The other area is stable coins and Senator Hagerty,
he's on the banking committee.
He just released a stable coin bill.
There's counterparts in the house.
And what the four chairman indicated is actually
they're gonna take up stable coins first.
And then market structure will follow very quickly.
So I think we could see a stable coin bill
pass Congress in the next several months.
- Sax, I guess the question is the SEC was,
and Gary Gensler were the blocker previously with crypto.
And they just said, "Hey, listen,
there's an existing set of rules here.
Just follow those rules."
Obviously those rules don't exactly apply
to the innovation happening in crypto.
So the question I think after stable coins,
which feels like a layup and a great place to start,
that'll be a great early win.
And it just makes people, I guess that would just reinforce
the dollar supremacy, right?
If it's tied to the dollar, so that's good for America.
But maybe you could talk to protecting consumers
because we all saw in the first couple of generations
of crypto, all kinds of grips and ICOs
and things that were never delivered.
So how do you balance those two things?
Protecting consumers who may get really enthusiastic
about this versus people who might try to prey upon them.
- Well, the first thing you wanna do
if you're gonna protect consumers
is you wanna bring the activity onshore.
Because obviously when all the activity gets driven offshore,
then it's hard for regulators to supervise it.
And moreover, it's hard for the market to know
who's a good actor, who's a bad actor,
what's a good project, what's a bad project.
So the first thing you wanna do
is have the innovation happen onshore in the United States.
By the way, it's probably not a coincidence
that the biggest fraud in the history of crypto,
which was FTX, was based in the Bahamas.
- Yeah. - Probably a recent--
- A little bit of a talent.
- A little bit of a talent.
- And it'll be an even stronger tell
when the good projects feel like they can come back
into the United States and then you've got the shady ones
in the Bahamas or in other countries,
they're gonna stick out like a sore thumb.
Everyone's gonna be able to understand that,
oh, those guys are too shady to operate in the United States.
So the number one thing we need to do
is just bring the innovation onshore.
In terms of the framework,
I think the market structure bill is gonna define.
Here's a security, here's a commodity,
here's what you have to do.
Here's the disclosure requirements around
creating a crypto project.
So all of that will be in the bill
and then in the meantime,
the SEC has created a new task force
under Hester Pers, who's a SEC commissioner
and she is already starting to do work
in that regard to define a better regime
at the SEC for crypto projects.
You mentioned that Gensler said
that the SEC's doors were open to crypto companies
and they should come in and talk to us and work with us.
That was very disingenuous.
Crypto companies would tell me they would go see the SEC.
The SEC would tell them nothing about what the rules were,
but they would have enforcement people in those meetings
just writing down everything they would say
and the next day they would get sent a well's notice.
So the truth is the SEC was not cooperating,
they were not providing any clarity.
They were just honey potting founders basically to come in
and then they would immediately investigate them.
I mean, it was really terrible.
Look, we expect founders to play by the rules
and abide by the law and be compliant.
But when you won't tell them what the rules are
and then you prosecute them,
there's no fair way for them to comply.
So the most important thing is to give them a framework.
I think the SEC now is doing that,
they're starting to do that already
and then legislatively we're gonna have a bill
that does that moving through Congress
over the next few months.
- This is absolutely awesome.
We're super encouraged that you're doing this
and we really appreciate you coming on the pod.
Wish you could participate in the other three or four
crazy discussions we're about to have,
but we understand you've got to stay focused on the mission.
Anything on the AI front that we can look forward to
in the coming weeks that you're working on?
I know that's the other part of your mission.
- Well, the big thing is, like I talked about last time,
the president rescinded the Biden EO,
which was this 100 page monstrosity.
It burned some regulation on our AI companies.
I think that decision's been proven even more right
in the wake of deep-seak because we know
that China has basically caught up
or they're very, very close to catching up.
It felt like that Biden EO was written in a vacuum
in which the U.S. was the only player in AI.
And that if we imposed a bunch of burdensome rules
on our companies, that somehow,
that wouldn't allow China to catch up, right?
And I think it's pretty clear that China
is very, very competitive.
If we hobble our AI companies,
it's gonna run down to China's benefit.
So I think that was a very good decision.
And what the president said in his EO
is that we should devise a new AI action plan
for a place that Biden EO,
and we're working on that right now.
- All right, Dave, we were planning your push.
- So we were planning your push.
- From Doge, you wanna share?
- I'll give you one anecdote,
which is I've been working late here a number of nights
at the EOB.
And I won't tell you where the Doge guys are based,
but I know where their office is.
So I just went by there to say hi.
The whole room was full of young coders.
I think they were engineers,
but they were wearing suits and ties.
So that's a little different,
but they were all working really late.
I mean, they're working there late at Friday night.
And the facilities people don't know what to do
because they've never had people
like asked to stay late on Friday before.
So they've had to create new facilities access
for these guys.
- They're like, you're coming to the office and doing work.
We don't have a protocol for that.
How does that work?
We're gonna need to get you a key or a badge
to come to the building.
Well, it's absolutely awesome to see the progress
you were making in the first two weeks
and continued success.
We're so proud of the effort.
- All right. Thanks guys.
- All right.
Do you guys think the Democrats are gonna lose people
over their opposition to Doge?
Like is Doge really viewed as oppositional
to Democrat party interests?
- This is- - For the average person?
- It's a war shack task.
I think the thing is that there was a coalition
that the Democrats had.
And there was a coalition that the Republicans had.
The Republicans did a better job of reforming that coalition.
And now I think what you're gonna see is a shrinking.
I actually got this totally wrong.
I don't know if you remember a couple of years ago,
but my thought at the time was,
if the Republicans don't figure out how to fix themselves,
they were gonna go and lose for the next 10 or 15 years.
And the reason I said that was they would walk
into every midterm and they would just get
their ass handed to them.
But I think they figured it out that this is sort of
this thing that I've been thinking about a lot is
there's a fight in Western societies
and it's a pendulum between labor and capital.
And it used to be the thought,
the conventional wisdom was that the Republicans
were pro-capital and Democrats were pro-labor.
And the brilliance of Trump is he took over
the Republican party and made it totally populist,
which is to say pro-labor.
And the crazy thing about the Democrats
is that they are the most sophisticated liars.
'Cause if you look at what happened under Biden,
you had record high stock markets.
So it was purely in favor of asset owners,
record high deficits, record high illegal immigration,
record high wage suppression.
All of these things are massively pro-capital,
but they tried to present themselves as pro-labor.
That entire ruse is now being undone.
And all of this data, what that does is it'll consolidate
the Democrats to a shell of their former self.
It'll take a year or 18 months.
But I think unless they figure out
how to totally hard reset,
they're gonna be in a really difficult struggle
to find a cohort of people beyond 15 or 20%
of the population for a long time.
- Well, and it's so dumb to come out against
waste, fraud, and abuse.
So the best argument the Democrats had, it seems,
was that, oh my God, people's social security numbers
or people's privacy was being violated
because they went in and looked at the data
and how the money was wasted.
This is the height of not getting the point
and not reading room.
100% of Americans don't want their tax payments stolen.
They don't care if you looked at their social security number.
This isn't a privacy issue
that Doge is looking at some database.
And that's what AOC and Schumer were doing.
Oh my God, these people are looking at
your social security number.
They have access to your records.
Who cares?
What matters is how much money is being stolen
from the American public and anyone at any point in time
could have picked up this issue.
This has been going on.
I think you pointed out the last time somebody really addressed
this in earnest was Clinton.
So this has been going on, Obama, Trump 1.0, Biden,
everybody has been raising the debt.
All of this grip has been going on.
It's only this time around that somebody picked up
the free money and said, here's an issue.
Now we see what happens when somebody picks up the issue
of stop wasting money.
It is a popular issue.
This is only gonna make Trump more popular.
- So Jason, I'm gonna add what you and Chamost said.
I think you're both right.
We give you a very concrete example.
Rahm Emanuel is now back in Japan.
He was chief of staff in both the Democratic White Houses
post Roosevelt, Clinton and Obama.
And he wrote an op-ed this weekend, this past weekend,
that basically said the Democrats have lost their way
because they have forgotten what he calls
kitchen table issues.
The things people, regular people care about
and Chamost, you're right.
I mean, the reality is they forgot about inflation.
They forgot that inflation is terrible
for the average person.
It's terrible for middle class America.
It's okay for people that own productive assets
because they just go up in value,
but it's terrible for people that are wage earners.
And then have any savings, terrible for older people
that are living off savings, terrible.
You know, Rahm makes this point that
if the Democrats are gonna re-conform in some way,
reform in some way, they're going to have to
recapture these kitchen table issues.
And if they don't, they'll just be about
these fringe social issues, DEI, transgender, whatever,
and that will never work.
They will never come back in a power.
- Well, I mean, the crazy thing is like
the Democratic policies are meant to favor
Capitol holders, but Capitol holders by and large
deeply dislike the Democrats
because of all of these other issues.
So they have no home.
There is no base from which to build from right now
unless they go through a great reset.
And part of it is that they have to understand
that they are actually not pro-labor.
They have been pro-capital.
But that requires such a schism
from the deepest believers of the Democratic Party
who thought, you know, eat the rich.
You wear it on your dress.
It's so important to you.
In fact, actually, you were feeding the rich.
You just, and the fact that you didn't even know that
is just pathetic.
- Yeah, what's funny is that, you know,
Margaret Thatcher famously said
that the problem with socialism,
you eventually run out of other people's money
and you run deficits, right?
And you destroy the country.
This happened in Venezuela.
It's always the end of socialism.
It's how it finishes.
It's how the movie ends. We've seen it around the world.
Just look south into South America.
We were heading that direction.
That's when I said earlier, I'm afraid we might become
a kleptocracy if this doesn't stop.
And I'm so grateful to all the great patriots at Doge
and the government and the president for making it happen
'cause we were heading that direction.
- So the Democratic Party is lost.
They'll continue to be lost.
Interesting thing came up this week.
On Monday, President Trump signed an executive order
laying out a plan to establish the first sovereign wealth
fund for the United States.
For those of you who don't know,
a sovereign wealth fund is essentially
an investment fund for a country.
It's almost universally based on natural resources.
So Norway, Saudi, UAE, they all have Australia,
sovereign wealth funds based upon minerals
or typically oil.
The United States is not known for having the oil reserves
of the Saudis or UAE or Norway.
This public investment fund would be apparently
anchored by potentially the TikTok shares
that Trump said he wanted to get half of
by giving a license.
A lot of that is unclear what this license would be.
It's never existed.
But this is the concept.
The Treasury Secretary and Commerce Secretary
have been tasked with developing a plan
over the next 90 days.
And the plan should include, quote,
recommendations for funding mechanisms,
investment strategies, fund structure
and governance model.
Chamath, you are tweeting about this.
What is the point of having a sovereign wealth fund
in the United States if we're $36 trillion in debt?
Shouldn't we just pay down?
- All right, I think it's not a--
- Where is money gonna come from, yeah?
- Well, it's not an either or thing.
And I think the point is that
if there are assets that are minted effectively overnight,
which I think the 50% share of TikTok would be,
so call it a hundred, 150 billion dollars,
the question is what should you do with it?
And who should govern it?
And I think this idea that if you had
a group of five elder statesmen,
so I'm just gonna throw some names out there,
David Tepper, Stan Druckenmiller,
Ken Griffin, John Doar or Mike Moritz,
Bill Gross or some other bond guy.
My point is what you get are five people
that are very sophisticated across all market categories.
One of them could be the rotating CEO
for some number of years.
People should rotate in and rotate out.
These are unpaid jobs because everybody
that has these slots should be mega billionaires,
so they shouldn't be doing it
for their own personal advancement.
And they should deploy that capital.
So as you sell down the TikTok shares,
maybe as you sell federal lands
and you generate more oil revenue,
take it all and invest it on behalf of America
into American companies.
I think that's a great, incredible idea.
- Antonio, you think the government should be
in this business?
- So I think it should but,
and I agree with Chamath that the governance
is very, very important.
I think he's got a good idea there.
I think it for a different reason,
is that we don't have an industrial policy in America.
Many of our strategic competitors around the world,
in particular China, have a long-term industrial policy.
And they put enormous amounts of capital
behind the industrial policy.
A sovereign wealth fund,
I think would be a stealthy way
to create industrial policy in America.
So rather than--
- There's a industrial policy in this kind of--
- So-- - Example.
- In China, they wanna build chip fabs
and they wanna catch up to TSMC.
So what do they do?
They take the dollars of trade surplus,
they get from us every year,
and they port back into making that stuff
inside their country.
And for decades, part of the problem we've had
with China is that capital's free
because the banking system just pushes money
out to manufacturers and they move the manufacturing
'cause the WTO from the US to China.
That's industrial policy.
People say the Chinese have a long-term,
under your vision.
The way it's manifest is this industrial policy.
We don't have that here at all.
And when we try to do it,
we do like to chips act and it goes through commerce.
We have government bureaucrats deciding
how to spend $200 billion to modernize Intel,
which needs to happen.
I mean, I'd much really have Ken Griffin, Bill Gross,
any of the guys Timoth mentioned deciding,
okay, we have five industries in America
and we invest in, let's make great investments, right?
I mean, let's make great investments for America.
They gotta be economic, they gotta make money for us,
but they gotta be good for the country.
I think that's what most use sovereign wealth funds do.
Some of them make portfolio investments,
but many of them like the sovereign wealth
and Saudi Arabia, the PIF,
they're making enormous investments domestically
to remake the economy toward tourism example.
And I think this is a great idea.
- They're literally building cities in neon.
They've got dozen cities being constructed
and trying to take an oil economy
and shift it to a tourism economy, a technology economy,
a private equity economy.
- Antonio is totally right.
Like Scott Besson, part of his congressional testimony,
you guys probably saw this was he laid out this thing
that he has that's called the 333 plan.
Right, and the 333 plan says,
we wanna see GDP growth of 3%.
We wanna see deficits that are no greater than 3%
and we wanna have 3 million bears of oil, right?
Produced domestically in the United States.
But if you double click on that,
if you look at the total energy reserves in the United States,
there are three times greater
than the total energy reserves of Saudi Arabia,
three times across all forms.
So not just oil, if you oil that gas plus coal.
If we actually go, as Antonio said,
towards an industrial policy that's pro-energy,
where the incremental cost of energy is effectively zero,
where we want just a gross abundance of electrons
flowing in America for all the great ideas that could pop up.
It is, by definition, going to generate
an enormous amount of revenue for the federal government.
And so I think having the sovereign wealth fund
be the rainy day fund, if you will, right?
That can bank a percentage of all of that.
I think starts to do a lot of really good
for the long-term strategic guidance of the US.
- Freiburg, what do you think here?
Is this something where we're making the government too big
and now we've got the government competing
with BlackRock and Sequoia and Andreessen Horowitz
and they're gonna be on the board
of technology companies and energy companies
and investing in it.
And then what happens when Obama, Biden, Trump, Bush,
you get different people running these things
and then they wanna do their pet projects?
It seems to me like this could be
get awfully conflicted, awfully quick.
What do you think?
Should this be a business our government's in?
- I think one of the things the government
sucks at is capitalism.
So I wouldn't make capitalism the mandate
of a sovereign wealth fund.
Certainly not when we have $40 trillion of federal debt.
It doesn't make economic sense.
Our cost of capital is 5%.
That's how much the interest is
on this 10 to 30 year debt right now.
So it's very hard to actually make real risk adjusted
returns when our cost of capital is so high.
So I don't think the mandate should be,
hey, let's put a bunch of capital in a pool,
go and invest it and probably make money
for the United States.
That seems silly.
But my point about the government being really
bad at capitalism is that the United States government
owns and has access to and will acquire
through other means significant assets and resources
that should be monetized in a smarter way.
And so I would kind of think about the sovereign
wealth fund as being more of a strategic vehicle
for monetization of high value government assets.
So for example, if Trump does actually negotiate
a 50% equity position in TikTok US,
that needs to sit somewhere.
It should not sit in the department of whatever.
It should sit with a capitalist manager
that then ultimately makes the decision on when
and how to monetize that asset,
return that cash to the treasury and pay down the debt.
Similarly, the US has large amounts of land,
has access to other large assets that get transferred
in seizures, et cetera, et cetera.
So I don't know if you guys remember all this,
but there was like Bitcoin seizures
that have happened over the years
is the government has cracked down on criminal enterprises.
Then the government owns this Bitcoin.
Do you think the smartest people are making the decisions
on where and how to sell down that Bitcoin?
I guarantee you not.
I would much rather have a capitalist making that decision.
So I would view the sovereign wealth fund
being less about raised capital
from other means in the government,
which effectively means borrowing money through treasuries
'cause of the debt level we have and trying to invest it.
And much more being about, okay,
what strategic assets can the US government monetize
and use this as the mechanism for doing that?
And then ultimately, I think the objective
should be to return that capital.
I do think there's also an opportunity
for managing social security in a smarter way.
So social security is functionally going to be bankrupt
in eight years.
The way the trust is set up, the cash that's there,
the assets that are there and the demand on social security
given the aging population and the rising payouts every year.
So one of the other ways to think about this
is what are the long-term debt obligations,
which is ultimately the point of these sovereign wealth funds
and can they be invested in smarter way?
Why is the social security entities ultimately owning
3% yielding bonds when they could be owning interest
in equities?
So I would kind of think about that strategic pool
of capital being managed by this as well
and less about the mandate of go be a capitalist investor
for the United States, raise money and make money.
I think leave that to the markets.
But when it comes to strategic assets,
I think this could be a good vehicle for--
- When the software got shut down, yeah,
we seized 144,000 Bitcoin and that's sitting somewhere
in some department of justice.
- They got sold off.
Yeah, they sold it. - They sold it?
- Yeah. - No, I think we still have it.
I think that was like the idea,
was that was going to become the Bitcoin strategic reserve.
I mean, you could also come up with--
- But the taxes to fund this. - The DOJ sells these.
So like, who do you think of the DOJ
as making the Bitcoin market decisions
and is that the right person to be monetizing these assets?
- I mean, they didn't initially put out security.
I got to fall upon, which is when you think about Social Security,
it's $6, $1 of our $36 on debt
and it's actually a fake treasury bill.
So just, one of the things we figured out early days
before the inauguration, I noticed like,
that's $6 trillion sits on the ledger,
it's just a paper ledger over.
So actually, if it gets paid out,
it's also be very inflationary.
It's just a fake treasury I let it over
that pays a very low rate.
And here at Valor, my partner is John Shulkin,
has been reading to try to help.
The only thing that we find in this audit in the government,
the Social Security Administration actually has an audit.
It has an audit.
And when you go through the audit,
it's crazy the material weaknesses going back to Doge
that you find, yeah, it'd be way better
to have that invest in a way that was economic,
it's for people with real money.
- By the way, guys, there's cracking for this.
- Guys, as we're speaking, the federal judge
just put a temporary restraining order on Doge
and has barred Elon and his team
from accessing U.S. treasury payments data.
- Hmm.
All right, so now we're gonna have a real grudge match
between the public, which judge was it, federal judge?
- Federal judge, yeah.
- Would you know why, do you want to say why?
- No, but Elizabeth Warren is doing a victory lap,
so I'm sure that she's part of it.
- So the government agency set up by the president
can't look at the database of the treasury.
So just to be double-click here, Doge is not a new agency.
It's the renaming of existing needs,
they came for the name of it, what defined it.
Elon tweeted about this some weeks ago
that was set up under Obama, actually, to do this,
to create an audit function to the government.
What's crazy about this ruling to me is Congress,
basically, the Constitution delegates to the executive,
the ability to spend the money
and they go through Congress
and it gets actually appropriate in Congress
and they get to spend it.
How can you spend money if you don't know where it went?
How can you be responsible, right?
You have the authority to spend it,
and how can we responsibly spend it
if you actually can't go look and see where it goes?
- Guys, this is flying fast and furious.
President Trump just unveiled his framework for his tax plan.
No tax on tips, no tax on senior social security,
no tax on overtime pay,
renew the middle class tax cuts, adjust the salt cap.
So again, very pro, as I said, pro-labro, pro-populist,
eliminate all special tax breaks
for billionaire sports team owners.
- Oh, all right, I'm hungry.
- I already sold a team, I already sold my fees,
I already sold my fees, oops, oops.
- Opposed the carried interest tax deduction loophole,
which allowed you to claim carried interest.
- Sorry, Antonio, oh, no, please, no, please.
- I'm gonna run, I'll be back in a few hours
in a thousand things.
(all laughing)
- Isn't that incredible?
I mean, he is really going for the juggle.
Wow, amazing, I support this 100%.
- The salt deductions coming back, is that right?
- Yeah, marginally though,
I don't think he's gonna give it the way
that it was before, but isn't this incredible?
I mean, who's gonna stand up and lay on the railroad tracks
for being able to amortize a multi-billion dollar
sports team purchase, or that when you make a fund investment,
you should get long-term cap gains treatment.
Who is going to be that person in this admit?
Nobody's gonna stand up for these things.
- I think we should just stop doing venture
and just start NGOs, we just start a whole
rat's nest of NGOs, ship money around.
- You could have an incubator.
- Yeah, absolutely.
(all laughing)
- An incubator.
- Come, if you've got a great idea for an NGO,
why did you launch launch in every single random
developing country in the world?
- I mean, if I had known that--
- You would have had eight billion of AUM
because of a USAID, just launch one in Vietnam
and we could have, yeah, I can just go launch.
- Go launch, I love it.
- We could have had a, yeah, a launch accelerator
in Vietnam for transgender, yeah.
- The Jason Calcanis launch fund of Equatorial Guinea.
(all laughing)
- It is so crazy though, to come out
and watching the Democrats just the self-own
of coming out and being like, we have to stop people
from stopping wasteful spend.
Like they just don't seem to understand how unpopular--
- These are kitchen table issues like Ram said.
I mean, everyone cares about that.
And if you don't care about that,
if you care about these fringe issues
and not the things people care about on the kitchen table.
- Well, and if you think about the transgender
sports issue, biological males playing
in female sports leagues,
that issue that Trump just did an EO yesterday for
was such an obvious issue of fairness
and has nothing to do with transgender.
It just has to do with like biology.
If a biological male plays basketball
on a biological female team, somebody's gonna get hurt
and that person's gonna score 100 points.
It's just obvious.
And the fact that the Democrats couldn't see that issue
being 100% for more 95% makes no sense.
Like it's just such an obvious litmus test of logic.
- I mean, look, man, the constitution is a document
about fairness, the people that found this country,
the Patriots found this country,
they did it 'cause you're treated unfairly at home.
All of us here are one generation away, right?
Or two generations away from immigration.
And the reality is that's why people come here, man.
It's un-American.
It's un-American.
- Sure, it varies.
We've got two people here who are immigrants.
- I'm reading the TRO and it looks like this TRO
means temporary restraining order.
And it's actually narrows who from Doge can get redoxes
down to two people, Tom Prowse and Marco Eliz.
- Oh, okay.
So they don't want to have the whole team
be able to see what's at treasury.
They just have to have a process and some sign off.
Okay, that sounds not unreasonable.
- I just want to point out two people to look at
number how good they are.
I'm saying we're 24/7, look at all the payments
in the US government, is not a lot.
- Yeah, it does seem like it needs to be more than two,
but it doesn't seem like they're saying
you can't look at it.
They just want to have some controls in place.
- I mean, it feels like that's an administrative block.
That's like the narrowest thing you can do.
Two, okay, yeah, you can come in,
but you can just send two people and just these two people.
So if they get sick or something happens,
they want to come in.
That seems to me to be truly
amidst your block to slow it down.
- Yeah.
Well, we're interpreting this in real time.
The facts will come out over time.
Let's wrap up on Google.
Google dropped 7% after reporting earnings on Tuesday,
Chamatha revenue up 12% year over year
to 96.5 billion, wow.
Cloud revenue was up 30% year over year,
12 billion YouTube ads,
searching 14% to 10.5 billion.
Net profit was around 26.5 billion,
up 28% year over year.
So they are really focusing on profitability.
Obviously four year numbers, this is just a current rate.
Total revenue, 350 billion with 100 billion in net profit.
Cloud and YouTube finished 2024
with a combined run rate of $110 billion.
YouTube is basically Netflix inside of Google.
And their Google Cloud is essentially AWS inside of Google.
The thing that made investors get concerned, Chamatha,
is that Google said it would invest 75 billion
in CapEx in 2025, 42% jump over 2024, 29% more
than analysts expect.
Obviously, this has to do with data center servers
and the AI build out.
What do you think about that number 75 billion,
obviously in relation to what we saw
with deep seek, doing it with maybe a little bit less,
maybe they're lying, is this just an absolute waste
of money or gargantuan number?
Or is it something they can easily
with that amount of profitability and cash they have
absorb and use in the future?
- I think I should stipulate that Google's models
are probably the best of all the models
across a broad base of capabilities if you test for them.
And so let's just start there,
which is whatever they're doing is working.
The thing that they need to do is be able
to translate those models now into better products.
And I think that that'll happen slowly.
Like for example, if you look at deep research,
most of the people online that are evaluating deep research
would now say that OpenAI is both faster
and just better on the margins.
All of these things can be improved.
I don't think that's a comment on the base model.
I think it's a comment on post training
and how they're attempting to productize these things.
So the other thing that Google has
is a money machine that directly benefits
from these AI driven optimizations on ad targeting.
The only other company that has anywhere close
to the same credibility is meta.
So I think what both of these two companies need to do
is do a better job of explaining how that 75 billion
gets segregated.
How much of that goes to these AI enabled models
that actually do better ads optimization.
There's a really interesting discussion
by a former meta machine learning engineer on X
about how they did it.
It's pretty amazing, it's staggering.
But if they could say half the money goes to that
and the other half goes to more speculative
pre-training and post-training,
I think the market would have eaten it up.
So it's probably more of a disclosure issue for Google
'cause I would say right now,
their model quality is the best.
- You have thoughts on this build out.
Antonio, obviously, I think you've been involved with XAI
and obviously you're involved with Twitter and X previously
and Colossus's colossal build out
that was extraordinary to watch in such a short period of time.
Do you have concerns that like some people do
that this build out is too expensive
and there would be too hard to monetize all that expense
or is it maybe a little bit of hand ringing
and the opportunity in AI is so obviously huge
that you just got to take the leap of faith
and if you build it, the revenue will come.
- Yeah, I think Chamoth has the right framework here
which is return of as a capital.
And what he's saying by, you know,
if Google had said, hey, half the money is for ads
and half the money's for budget post-training,
the market would have seen that half the money
has a higher return capital
and Google's return capital is actually going up
after the implementation of AI models
into their company.
And I think that sort of abstracts the entire market
which is people are waking up
that return invested capital and data essential matter,
that the models are basic commodities
and super competitive.
And in best case, it's kind of a land-run Asia,
it's a melee, in a worst case, it's total commodities.
What does matter is the return of capital data center
which influenced by how good the data centers are.
So you mentioned the XAI data center,
it's a 100,000 GPU cluster.
It's the most dense coherent cluster in the world
and it will just train faster and better
than other clusters.
And it's also built for the most cheaply
and the fastest.
So XAI will have the highest return capital
and I also think the best trained data
and therefore will win.
I think Google will also win
because they have their TensorFlow chips,
they've made some of their own chips.
They do focus on ROIC
and they have a great monopoly, kind of fun at all.
So I don't think it's over, don't blow it.
I think this is gonna be, as you guys have said before
in the podcast, it'll bigger than dust revolution,
but it's also true that you need to have a good ROIC.
And if you don't, you're not transparent about it,
you can see what happens.
- I would argue, Google's probably been
the most frugal, thoughtful and well managed
computing infrastructure and investor of all time.
You know, the '98 to 2005 era at Google,
it was all about just cheap throwaway racks.
That was the big advantage they had
is they weren't using the expensive Oracle servers.
And they had a two to three year kind of depreciation
timeline on those, but they were super cheap.
And so the ROIC was quite good.
Then they got into energy efficiency,
which they realized was a big driving cost.
They started to build systems that were more energy efficient
as a result, they lasted longer.
And then their depreciation schedule
moved up to three to four years,
meaning they could kind of write down
the value of the servers over three to four years.
And then from 2010 to 2015 era,
their hardware system for cloud allowed them
to kind of extend through repurposing the utilization
and they increased their depreciation to four to five years.
And then in 2021, I don't know if you guys remember this,
they made this kind of big change
to their depreciation schedule
on data center infrastructure to six years.
So when they invest CapEx in a data center,
they would write down the servers over a six year cycle
because of AI optimization on maintenance.
So they started using AI just for internal management
of the infrastructure.
So I would view the $75 billion CapEx
actually as a very positive signal for the company.
I think that it means that they have a really strong line
of sight on how they're going to have full utilization
and great return on this.
If you do the math, ROIC math on this, $75 billion,
assume a 20% ROIC, you've got to be generating,
call it roughly an incremental $15 billion of profit a year
plus the amortization of the 75 billion.
So take the 75 billion divided by six,
that's 12 billion plus 15 billion.
So basically they would need to make
an incremental $27 billion of operating profit a year
on the 75 billion for this to meet their ROIC performance.
That doesn't seem crazy 'cause that's just under 20%
of their annual operating profit.
This is a very kind of, I think, important point,
which is Google doesn't just do this to build out AI
in the future, they have a really strong line of sight
on how this can kind of increment
and you don't have a huge hurdle for them
for this to pay back.
So I don't know, I would kind of say Antonio's point,
if you this is a positive,
I think if you use their historical ability
to manage infrastructure and make predictions
on investments as an indicator of the future,
this is a strong and positive indicator.
And I do think that for all the naysayers out there
that think that search is gonna evolve to chat,
you could look at this as being a really important
proof point that Google has the confidence
that they're gonna be able to move from search to chat.
And as Jamak points out,
they've got great performative models.
And then I would view this more of as a positive
than a negative, if they were under investing,
I would be worried that they didn't know where to invest.
But to see them make this degree of investment
highlights the confidence and the strategy.
- And Tony, I don't know if you've been watching
the agent space or deep research that came out from Google
and then closed AI and an open AI,
launched their copycat version of this product.
Sorry, I don't have feelings on it.
I'm curious your thoughts on job displacement.
We're looking at self-driving.
Obviously, Waymo's got cars on the road.
Obviously Tesla, which you were previously on the board of.
And I know you were the first institutional investor
in Tesla, self-driving is pretty good.
I only get like one or two disengagements per hour.
And they tend to be the ones where I just want to take
the turn a little sharper kind of thing.
So that's getting pretty close.
BYD is very close.
You got a lot of job displacement that occur.
Millions and millions of drivers in 10 years
could lose their jobs.
Researchers working at Gartner group, whatever,
Boston Consulting Group.
Like, it feels like there could be massive job displacement.
Do you have concerns about that in the American economy
and globally?
There's a lot of hammering about this and it's real.
In prior moments of large disruption,
that there have been job displacements
because there's a generous people to get retrained
for something else to keep retrained.
So I think there were studies,
Martin Freeman did the steel industry in Pittsburgh
in the '70s that the cost of each steel worker job loss
was about a million dollars to the economy
because these people couldn't be retrained
and that might happen here.
But I have a more benign outlook personally.
What I think is going to happen is that you will have job loss
but the amount of productivity that will be released
in the US economy is going to be extraordinary.
So GDP growth is a function of the number
of people working times productivity.
It's very simple.
Economists want to make it more complex than that
but it's the number of people working times productivity.
If you go, productivity goes up to five, six, seven, eight percent.
You get a massive boost in GDP growth.
And then what happens?
Well, people can get retrained, they can get different jobs,
different services happen, people start companies.
The application layer of LLMs is just starting.
The barrier to start a company is quite low.
Things like launch probably explode
because there's all these people who don't have jobs
anywhere that work, countenance and want to start something.
It's hard to know what happens.
I believe in American agility.
I believe in this country.
I believe that we will figure out a way
to make this all work.
And if there's enough productivity and money in the economy
that's flowing, people will find new jobs.
They will find new businesses to start.
They will find new things to do.
We have to get out of the way, take regulation down
and let Americans be creative
and unleash the American productivity machine.
Let's make that happen.
Yeah, that's, I think, really strong thoughts.
And I mean, that's the game we're seeing on the field.
How many companies are we seeing
hit a million dollars in revenue with five employees
where that used to take 25?
So the efficiencies there.
Chamop, you're outlook on this issue
since it seems to be coming up again,
specifically with truck drivers and Uber drivers
and all kinds of other research jobs
that seem to be doing pretty well
or can be done pretty well by AI.
Where do you stand on this issue today?
I think it's a process.
Buffett wrote about this in an annual letter.
And what he described was the changing nature of jobs
during the agrarian revolution.
And what you saw was a large cohort of people
who supported themselves through farming.
And then the total quantum of those jobs
shrank by 90% when you had industrialized farming
and tractors and whatnot.
But the economy to Antonio's point grew around that business
and added other kinds of businesses
that didn't make sense in that moment.
And I think what you see is that when
economies get more and more evolved,
you see the growth of services, businesses,
that sort of are these things that can only happen
when you have excess, right?
The person that you pay for closet organizing
would not have had a job in the turn of the agrarian revolution
or the industrial revolution.
But they can exist in 2020, something, and frankly,
they can make a good job, the life coach.
There are all these jobs that just kind of come out of nowhere.
Podcaster, influencer, all of that.
Venture capital list.
Transfer capital allocator, absolutely.
Mute and strawberry creator.
So I think that you're--
Cut that.
Waiting for this next turn of creativity.
Like the big problem that we all have,
maybe I'll take the more glass at empty version
of what Antonio said is,
we really haven't been unlocking people's creativity
over the last 15 years.
We've been trundling around,
except safe of a few companies, which we all know,
and we can just repeat them endlessly.
But we know which ones they are
that are truly innovating and at the edge.
Everybody else is kind of diddling around naval casing.
So the real problem is that we have not had a lot of reps
in being creative.
I'll give you just a very simple example, Nick.
Can you find this?
Even extremely state industries.
Did you see the BYD clip of the car?
Yes.
And I thought to myself--
Parallel Park, yes, with a little swipe.
How tragic is it that you look at this
and you're blown away?
And you're blown away for two reasons.
One is, A, I didn't think that that was possible.
And B, why doesn't exist in America?
But the reality underneath the hood
is extremely benign, how this is implemented.
And so I think that the problem is,
we spent so much time losing the script.
I think Antonio is right, when you unshackle people
to not focus on the mental load of getting the pronouns right
or the this or the that, you won't be so overwhelmed
by things like this, because you will have already
been pushing the boundaries of human creativity.
We need to get back to that.
We need to let these creative people cook.
And I hope that that happens.
And I think that that will happen.
Freeberg, can you do a science corner
on the FDA approval for the non-opioid painkiller?
Not today.
No, I know, but could you do it like in a couple weeks?
Yeah.
But what I wanted to do is that new macro study on GLP1s,
which I think is super interesting.
Oh, tell us.
You guys remember, I talked a while ago
about how they were able to mine VA data.
So the VA, right, they take care of veterans
and they have all the medical records.
And on an anonymized basis,
they can make that data available to researchers.
And so if you guys remember this,
this is how they identified that the Epstein-Barr virus
or the virus that causes mono
as being statistically certain to be the trigger
for multiple sclerosis.
In the cohort of hundreds of thousands of patients
that were in this dataset, no one got MS
that didn't get Epstein-Barr virus.
If you did not get Epstein-Barr virus, you did not get MS.
I don't know if you guys remember
I did the science corner a while ago.
Anyway, so the data set that you can mine
at the VA is incredible.
So they pulled all the data from everyone
that's been on the GLP1 agonists.
And they identified all of the health effects
across multiple indications,
the statistical difference between the cohorts.
Okay, so this research team out of St. Louis
pulled all the data from the VA database.
And basically they looked at 1.2 million people
with diabetes that didn't take anything
compared to 215,000 that took the GLP1 receptor agonists
and another 600,000 people that took other drugs for diabetes.
So basically this cohort segmentation
allows them to isolate the effect of the GLP1 drugs.
And as you can see here,
this shows across hundreds of thousands of patients,
the effect of the GLP1 on a hazard ratio,
which means like how likely are you
to have the following health condition
versus the population that's not taking the GLP1s.
And then on the right, if you scroll to the right, Nick,
are the increase in risk.
And on the left are the things that go down.
So the increase, the only thing that increased
is like, you know, 8% or 10% increase in nausea and vomiting.
Yeah, can confirm.
Musculoskeletal complications, GRD,
which is, you know, gastric reflux from--
Sleep disturbing.
In digestion, yeah, and sleep disturbance
dominated in digestion.
So it's all abdominal stuff.
Now, if you go over here to the benefit side,
so the benefit side is what conditions did you see
a decrease in?
So you have a decrease in shock,
a decrease in hepatic failure, so liver failure,
respiratory failure, cardiac arrest.
In fact, on cardiac arrest,
you see a 30% decrease in the probability
of having cardiac arrest from the cohort
that's on the GLP1s versus many of those.
Schizophrenia, bulinear.
Yeah, wow, schizophrenia.
So this goes to the point,
if you guys remember the interview I did
a couple months ago with the CEO of Eli Lilly,
that they have all these clinical trials going on right now
for different indications for the GLP1 receptor agonist,
that they're seeing that there's health benefits
beyond just the weight loss in reducing things
like kidney disease, obviously liver problems,
mental problems, and so on.
Do we know why?
And if we don't know why,
do you think it's because this is suppressing the food
and it's the lack of food or the change
in the food consumption that's creating this?
Do you know what I'm asking?
Like, do you think the drug is actually--
I do, yeah.
So you should watch the interview I did with Rakes.
In fact, this is a good moment to call it out if you haven't seen it.
I haven't seen it yet.
I think he highlights that this class of drugs,
there are, you know, genes get turned on and off.
So there's a, you know, what's called a gene expression
cascade that occurs with certain compounds.
So we know that the GLP1 receptor agonist
means that it binds to these GLP1 sites
and there's a cascading effect of genes
that then get expressed.
And what that seems to do is turn off things
like inflammatory markers.
It turns on things like CERT2 genes,
which can actually increase cellular repair.
So there seem to be other benefits from these drugs
beyond just the appetite control
and it's not the appetite control itself,
but there seems to be other effects.
Let me ask you a question from these receptors being activated.
Would you put your kids on this?
No.
Okay, would you put your wife on this?
I would consider it, and I would consider it for myself, too,
just for the anti-inflammatory effects.
How will you make that decision?
Well, for me, personally, and the thing that I weigh against
is the muscle loss and the bone density loss.
So I think that if you look at the biggest kind of effect
on the downside basis is you should increase your protein
in your diet, you have to do weightlifting.
There's things that you would do.
And frankly, if you do those things anyway,
if you increase protein in your diet
and do more weightlifting,
you're actually gonna see very good health benefits
from just doing those things
that may actually outweigh the benefits you do.
I have a question you gave, which is,
and this is the question is when you look at that data
and you talk to the COs,
how much do you think really long term
and the long term size are out is gonna be that
it was the drug or just hitting obese is very bad for you.
And so when you take your body fat down dramatically,
all these other gene expressions happen anyway, right?
So what do you think, which one will it be?
Well, this is what they're starting to isolate,
and I would say, Antonio, they are starting to see
that there are other expressions that are not related
to the obesity and people that don't have obesity
that they're using these drugs.
So they're seeing that cohort data now.
Clinical studies, phase two were published,
and I think we're gonna see phase three
in some of these indications soon,
but it is looking very positive
that it's not just the loss of obesity.
Now to your point, being obese, not exercising,
eating poorly, destroys your health,
you stop that (beep)
- Right, right.
- Everything gets better.
If you lift weights,
- Freebrook, can you tell us when you decide to do this?
- I will, yeah, if I do do a GLP one receptor agonist,
I will let you guys know right now.
I actually feel like I wanna go through a process
of increasing my weightlifting routine more.
I've been trying to create a more kind of rigorous schedule.
My schedule just sucks,
so that's been the hardest thing for me.
But I actually wanna go through that first
before making that decision.
- Yeah, I have a kind of cool, David, I'm sorry, Ben.
- No, I was just curious, why that order?
I don't understand.
- I wanna measure the effects.
'Cause I do think that if you actually get
into a regular weightlifting routine
and you increase protein in your diet,
which is another thing I've been making
a concerted measured effort to do,
which is hard as a vegetarian, by the way,
you see pretty significant health effects.
And so I'm trying to get through the process
of increasing muscle composition
before I'll make the decision
on whether or not to add GLP one.
I don't wanna kind of confound the two factors.
- You know what I did, that made it super easy for me,
is I got egg whites in a carton.
- Yeah, I don't know.
- And I have this incredible,
crunchy, spicy garlic thing
that everybody in Momofuku and everybody makes
and everybody's crazy about.
Just in the mornings, I'll eat whatever it is,
10 ounces, 12 ounces of egg whites.
With that spicy stuff, it's delicious, it's awesome.
And I just try to get that whatever,
30, 40 grams of protein first thing in the morning.
And then doing the rocking, well, this is easy.
Like you just wear a 35-pound weight vest, Freeburg,
and you walk a mile or two
and you will get like your problem.
- My problem, Jason, with all of this,
is that every time I see something,
so I saw Gary Breca on the Sean Ryan podcast recently
and Sean Ryan asks him like,
what are a handful of things
that you recommend for everybody, right?
And he recommends mineral salt
and then he recommends a methylated vitamin.
He recommends amino acids, whatever.
There's a protocol.
Then if you happen to catch a clip on X of Andrew Huberman,
he'll have a protocol.
And then Brian Johnson has a protocol.
And the problem is all these protocols are slightly the same,
but they're just different enough
where it creates a huge cognitive load
in a normal person like myself,
to your point, Freeburg, who's busy,
who's got a job, who's got kids, how do you decide?
And so I would really love something to be sort of like,
I don't wanna say gold standard because you can't say that,
but that is like, what's the real bang for your buck?
What Antonio said, you know, are you just better off
just losing the 50 pounds?
And then this is why these products are successful.
And I think we'll be continue to grow
pretty dramatically Antonio is because it is pop a pill
and it solves all those problems.
It doesn't require cognitive load.
And it will be in a health format soon, right?
I mean, the pills are almost here.
I love you very cool.
Actually Dave, if you do this,
Sichobas Point about, you know, people being confused.
If you did the every person's kind of story
around this journey and you documented it.
- Totally.
- You did like, this is my way.
I did weightlifting first and I did the GOP one
and you actually did like a weekly thing
when you checked in and even it was 10 minutes
up on X or something where you just gave people the journey
in a way that wasn't so complicated.
Because I think people are confused.
Jamaz, I mean, I have very good doctors.
You guys have good doctors, but if you don't,
you don't know what to do.
- By the way, the problem for me,
just to give you a sense of it,
I had a doctor in LA, I had a doctor in San Francisco,
I would have them do their own versions of things,
then I would have somebody else help me compare.
It cost me way too much money
and all that complexity did was make the quality
of my healthcare actually go down.
And instead what I really wanted was just a very simple
protocol that said, take the metformin
because it's good for you, take the vitamin D,
take the omega-3 fatty acids,
otherwise just eat this meal plan
and it would help me a lot more than,
then I've had to cobble it together myself.
Because by the way, when you see something like,
Gary Breca is very, very articulate, very smart,
but when I see him on the Sean Ryan podcast,
the first thing I do is I go and populate an Amazon cart
with all the things that he said because my instinct is,
well, I should do the right thing for myself.
This is a couple hundred bucks, it's worth the investment.
But then the day after, somebody else says something else.
So I'll be really interested.
- You have a little OCD though, Jamaz.
I've known you for a long time.
You get very obsessive with my father's guide
because of poor health.
My best friend died of poor health.
I feel like you should at least do the things
that are preventable.
- Did you guys see that that post you motted with you?
He was like half naked in the mirror.
He looks great, man. - Oh god.
- What are you talking about, he looks creative.
If you would look like that, you'd do it too.
- No, no, no, I'm talking about like,
when you had the glucose monitor,
I'm sitting with him at the poker table,
he's got the glucose monitor and he's taking a sip of wine,
he's checking the glucose, he's having like a piece of brujutes,
then he's checking the glucose monitor.
It's just like literally becomes obsession.
(laughing)
- There he is.
- There he is.
- Come on, that ain't come on.
- I don't think this A has stopped his chair in the bag.
- I don't think he'll say funny about this picture.
All these clowns on the internet are like,
they don't understand that when you're six foot two,
these are big legs.
When you're six foot two.
- Those are not big.
(laughing)
When you're six, when you're a short king,
when you're a short king, when you're like five seven.
- I did lose my job today.
- I lost my job.
- When you're five seven five eight,
I get it while you guys,
did you guys are all stubby and short?
I don't get it.
- This is the problem with generative AI.
You can tell it's a fake photo.
You can tell that that was generative AI
because nobody has legs that day.
How could you have biceps and then legs that day?
- Wait, come on, that's what makes sense.
- Look at that.
(laughing)
- It's a month of logic.
- Unbelievable.
- What a first trap.
- Now you guys are gonna find photos
of Antonio and I, we're gonna throw them all up.
- I have four pieces of advice for people.
Number one, get good sleep.
Number two, exercise.
Number three, diet.
Number four, meditation.
And if you wanna do that,
it's very simple.
- Have kids.
- You get the calm meditation.
- Have kids.
- You get the eight sleep sleep.
You get the fit bodful fitness.
(laughing)
And then you get an intracensory.
You're an intracensory.
You got an intracensory.
(laughing)
- You think you would focus on both people?
Make sure you have a zenafina.
You get a goodafina system.
All of this is brought to you by my NGO,
which is all in NGO.
USA gave us 18 million less.
You guys, I forgot to tell you about it.
But don't worry, it's in an offshore account for all of us.
When we get back to Ethiopia and Vietnam,
we have an all in castle built there, okay?
We built with our NGO.
- So good.
- We'll see everybody next week.
- Love you boys.
- We love you.
- Good to see you guys, man.
- Love you guys, man.
- Love you guys.
- Love you guys.
- Love you guys.
(upbeat music)
 We'll let your winners ride 
 Brain man, David Sacks us up 
 I'm going all the way 
 And it said 
 We open-source it to the fans 
 And they've just gone crazy with her 
 Love you guys 
 Ice Queen of Kinwah 
 I'm going all the way 
 I'm going all the way 
 What, what, your winners ride 
 I'm going all the way 
 Besties are gone 
 I'm going all the way 
 Besties are gone 
You're a dog, take him and I'll just get a room and just have one big huge orgy, because they're all just like this like sexual tension that they just need to release somehow.
What? You're the bee. What? You're a bee. What? You're a bee. What? We need to get merges on now.
I'm going all in!
I'm going all in!
(upbeat music)

