
the world needs around like 12 million cyber defenders today and there are 12 million job postings
out there. But the actual workforce is only around 7 million. There's a shortage of 5 million
cyber security analysts or defenders, but unless somebody invents cloning or some sort of mind
transfer, then some sort of software-based automation seems to be the only other solution.
Welcome to Founded and Funded. I'm Majorna Parker of the Vikramaswamy, and today I have the pleasure
of hosting Edward Wu, the founder of 2024 IA40 winner DropZone, which is building a next-generation
AI security operations center. Edward decided to take the leap and start his own company after
spending eight years at ExtraHop, where he rose to the role of senior principal scientist,
leading AIML and detection. Now at DropZone, he's tackling some of the most pressing challenges
at the intersection of AI and cybersecurity. On this episode, we'll explore Edward's
decision to leave ExtraHop to build DropZone. His thoughts on why generative AI is uniquely
suited to addressing alerts and investigation in cybersecurity, and how DropZone is redefining
the role of AI in the security operations center. We'll unpack Edward's decision to leap into
entrepreneurship, how he landed key customers like UiPath, and why transparency is vital in a
category often skeptical of AI. You'll also share his perspectives on how AI unlocks new
opportunities in cybersecurity, along with lessons he learned as a first-time solo founder.
Well, Edward, thank you so much for joining us today. My pleasure. Well, let's kick off with
having you share a little bit about your journey into security. What sparked your
interest in the space to enter into security? Yeah, I was quite similar to a lot of security
practitioners. I grew up playing with computers, playing games, cracking games, and I think that's
what got me started with security, because a lot of the skills or tools who use to crack
games or cheat in games, I would say jibe a lot with reverse engineering and malware analysis.
So that's what got me started, and then after I got into my undergrad program at UC Berkeley,
I really, I would say made the decision to eventually pursue a PhD in cybersecurity. So that's kind of
where I spent three years in my undergrad doing cybersecurity-related research, like automated
malware analysis, binary analysis, you know, reverse engineering, Android apps. And yeah,
that's kind of what got me started in security. Yeah, that's great. So even back then you were
thinking about security and cybersecurity, and obviously there was a lot of attacks and things
like that. Even back then, you spent eight years at Extra HOP, which is a major portfolio company,
and you know, eventually became the senior principal scientist, led AIML and detection there.
Tell us a little bit about that journey, and then you can tell us a little bit about why you
decided to leave and launch your own company in drop zone. Yeah, Extra HOP was definitely a very
fun ride for me. I joined or I picked Extra HOP when I decided to quit my PhD due to a variety of
reasons. Part of it is cybersecurity academic research. Frankly, it's not as interesting
as a real thing in the industry. So when I decided to quit my program, I actually applied to and
interviewed practically anywhere in every stage cybersecurity companies I can found. I remember
one of them was Iceberg. I was offered to be employee number four, which, and Iceberg was a
mock drone, a portfolio company as well. So while I was looking around, Extra HOP really
struck me because back then, Extra HOP wasn't in cybersecurity at all. It was in network performance
analytics. And when I saw the demo of Extra HOP's product, I saw so much potential because what
Extra HOP had in terms of potential is very similar to what the police department and state agencies
discovered about traffic cameras. Initially, you have a lot of traffic cameras for monitoring
traffic. But after a while, everybody discovered how much more valuable information you can get
out of traffic cameras, whether it's fugitives or help identifying other sorts of suspicious
activities. So I really saw that opportunity and ended up joining Extra HOP and essentially
helping Extra HOP to build and pivot from a network performance company to a network security company.
And along the way, build Extra HOP's AIML and detection product from scratch and really
spend a lot of time working with Extra HOP customers and understanding how security teams actually work.
How did you think about even joining a startup or a scaling startup back then? Obviously,
your interest in security probably could have looked at Palo Alto Networks or Fortnite or
a much larger platform. What attracted you to a startup at the time?
Yeah, I would say while I was in college, I came across a couple of blogs talking about the founding
journey of a couple of different security startups. And I think those really struck me
and got me really excited and interested to eventually start my own company.
So while I was looking for, you know, my first job out of college, the number one criteria is
this opportunity to learn how to actually build a startup someday in the future for myself.
And that's why when I interviewed the Extra HOP and I met Extra HOP's back then CEO and
co-founder, Jesse Rosson, I told him, "Hey, the reason I'm looking at startups is I want to start
my own company someday in the future, which actually is a great foreshadow when I told him I'm going
to resign and start my own thing, you know, eight years later." Because, you know, I told him so
before I got started. You couldn't act shocked because he would have known eight years before.
Correct. But yeah, back then I was really looking for opportunity to learn how to build a product
from scratch. And that's kind of where, like between Extra HOP and iceberg, I picked Extra HOP
because it was a little bit more mature. And because of that, I could learn from the existing
lessons and the, you know, the potholes Extra HOP falling to and then dug themselves out of.
No, and it sounds like you had that kernel of idea in your head from early on that you wanted
to go and start your own company. Before we get into the aha moment that led you to leaving in
founding drop zone, would you suggest to other founders that it's helpful to spend time at a
company, even if you had that idea early on back in your, you know, even when you're in academia,
thinking about starting a company, would you suggest it's good for founders to go in
and spend a number of years, add another startup to learn? Or how would you think about that journey
that founders have to go on before they start their own business? At least in my experience,
I do believe that if you're going to start a B2B company, I think it's vitally important to work
somewhere first because that really gets you the exposure to how B2B actually works. I think
there's a number of, you can say whether it's processes, structures that all B2B company has
to go through. And by working at the established organization, I think that really teaches you,
you know, what good engineering looks like, what good customer success looks like, what good
marketing looks like, what good sales looks like, because all of these will become tremendously
important when you do start your own B2B company. So now, you know, you've been at Extra HOP for
eight years, you've learned, you know, good marketing, good sales, you've seen this journey,
and you know, you've obviously had this idea now for eight years in your head that you want to go
found your own company. So what was sort of the the aha moment, like just walk us through like,
what was the idea you had in your head? Where did you see the opportunity, you know, that led you
to actually go out and leave Extra HOP and found drop zone? The biggest thing is, while I was at
Extra HOP, I have always been keeping track of industry movements and trends, because I know
the only way I can find my own company someday in the future is by looking for kind of this next
big thing. So during my time at Extra HOP has done a lot of analysis and paid attention to
every single year's RACC innovation sandbox, as well as other movements within cybersecurity
to see, okay, what are other people building? And if I were to be a, you know, investor,
or that invest my money or time, right? Because as a founder, to some extent, you're also an
investor. You're investing is the most precious resource you have, which is your time. So yeah,
I've been doing a lot of that for years. And then when Jen and I came around, that really got me
excited because for the first time, I saw an idea where we can tackle one of the holy grail
unsavable problem within cybersecurity by leveraging this new technical catalyst. And that combination
of a very concrete universal pain point and a new technical catalyst, which essentially means
there is no way to solve this problem previously, which obviously makes starting a new company
a lot easier because you don't have tons of incumbents to deal with. And all the factors combined,
I will say, are working reasonings behind my departure.
And you bring up a good point, which is, and I think many of the founders that listen to this
podcast that we work with over the last few years after college at GPT came out or after,
you know, transformers really were becoming a big thing is that they also said, hey,
there's an opportunity in AI. I want to go found a business. You mentioned that if it wasn't for AI,
or the current versions of that we have in AI, some of these problems likely couldn't have been
solved in security. Maybe just take us through that. Like, you know, what specifically were you
seeing in this intersection of AI and security that said, hey, there's a technical change,
like something is different now that's going to unlock problems that we couldn't unlock before.
And then maybe you can tell us a little bit about how that led you to what your core focus is at
drop zone today. So for people who are not familiar with security, one of the biggest challenge
within cyber security today is ability to process all the security alerts. To some extent, it's
actually a very similar problem to modern day police departments have, which is they have all
source of crime reports, but not enough detectives to follow up on every single report. And this is
kind of where historically it has been very difficult problem to solve because the act of
investigating security reports and security alerts actually requires tons of human intelligence.
You cannot out code your way through an investigation process because when a security
analyst are looking at security reports and alerts, what they are going through in their head is a
very detective recursive reasoning process. So that has been one of the biggest bottleneck
within cyber security. There's a couple workforce reports out there that share the world needs
around like 12 million cyber defenders today. And there are 12 million job postings out there,
but the actual workforce is only around seven million. So there's a shortage of five million
cyber security analysts or defenders that the world needs to truly protect themselves. But
unless somebody invents cloning or some sort of mind transfer, then some sort of software-based
automation seems to be the only other solution. Yeah, as you say, there is a shortage in the
number of security practitioners that can do these kinds of things. It's interesting because I feel
like in this first wave of AI, we saw a lot of companies going after, hey, there's this intersection
of AI and security, let's just go secure the models, or let's think about like the models
themselves. It seems like what you were thinking about is there's an existing workflow today that
is understaffed. And that's where we see AI actually helping. Had you worked with these practitioners
before in your time in actual hobby, had you seen these problems of alerting and alert fatigue and
how do we actually get AI to solve problems where we don't have enough people to scale and solve
these problems? To some extent, what I did at actual hub was probably one of the reasons why
security practitioners are overwhelmed by alerts because while what I built at actual hub is a
detection engine. So it looks at network telemetry and identifies suspicious activities. You know,
user A uploaded five gigabytes of data to Dropbox, user B established a persistence connection
with an external website for 48 hours, user C, SSH into the database. All of these security alerts
takes time to investigate. And those are exactly the type of alerts that historically have overwhelmed
security practitioners. To some extent, my work in the past eight years has contributed or maybe
partially caused some of the alert fatigue and overload. So I'm definitely intimately familiar
with this particular problem. And the way you said when Gen AI came along, a lot of people had this
idea. Oh, let's just secure the models. My train of thought is very similar to like a post I saw
on Twitter, which says like one way you can think of Gen AI is essentially we as humans
discovering in New Island, where there are 100 billion people with college level education
and intelligence willing to work for free. And we just talked about this huge staff shortage
in cyber security. So why don't we take those, you know, 100 billion people with college level
intelligence and, you know, willing to work for free and have them look at all the security alerts
and help to improve the overall cyber security posture. Yeah, well, you have this great term that
you're describing to us was you're saying drop zone is like having a number of interns or having
a whole new set of staff. How do you describe it? Maybe if we were to zoom out, we view drop zone
as essentially a software based staff augmentation agency for cyber security teams.
So what we're building are essentially, you can say AI agents or AI digital workers
that work alongside of the human cyber security analysts engineers to allow security teams
to do five to 10 next more than what they are capable of doing today. But without five or 10
next things about it or headcount. And I think you're primarily selling to CISOs, right? The chief
security officer chief information security officer. But the actual practitioners of who is using
drop zone tends to be folks that are actually in the security operations center, right? So
so who are usually the people who are actually using drop zone on a day to day basis or interacting
with it? So the primary user of our product are essentially security analysts who are working
socks or security operations centers and are responsible for responding to security alerts
and confirm breaches. And you know, I think just going back to one thing you were saying before,
which is the nice thing about building when there's a new tech change, like what we have with AI,
is that you don't have these incumbents, right? Or the incumbents tend to be a little bit slower
to move or or they're more reactive. In this case, you can build a net new business and you can help
create a category. One thing you and I have talked about is this is such an obvious problem in the
sense that every large company or mid market enterprise company has an understaff security
operation center. And a number of startups have sort of popped up and started to build, you know,
what they call AI socks, right? Or agents for the socks. And so if we zoom out, how do you view
this landscape? How do you view this category where, you know, on one hand, it's a total validation
of the market saying that something like this needs to occur because people clearly want this product.
And on the other hand, it's like, okay, well, how am I supposed to disaggregate and decide between
10 or 12 competitors at all, maybe look to the same on the surface?
I would say if we were to zoom out, the market drops on operates in the AI stock analyst market
or autonomous stock platform market is probably the single most competitive market within cyber
security today. And like I said, one challenge is the intersection of cyber security in AI is
tremendously interesting. And the alerting investigation use case, to some extent is kind of an obvious
use case that a lot of people can see. So the way we think about competition is actually not
that different from all previous generations of the, you know, startups, which is having a lot
of competitors, it's great validation for the market. But the reality is most startups or most
players are not going to be successful for a variety of different reasons. So to some extent,
it's not a competition in terms of like who gets the highest grades. It's actually a competition
of who finishes the marathon. So from our perspective, when we think about competition, a lot of it
actually has to do with how could we do better? How could we ensure that we're delivering real
world concrete value to our end users? Because we know we're solving a very large problem
with a lot of needs in very large total addressable market. We actually don't need to worry too much
about our competitors right now, because frankly, most of them are still pre-product at this moment.
Our focus right now is sort of like, can we sign up one? Can we sign up five? Can we sign up 10,
20, 50 paying customers who are getting real world value out of our technology? As long as
we could do that, the success will come regardless of what our competitors do.
Yeah. So focus, you just have to have to focus and focus on your customers and make sure that
you're delivering a product and experience that they really like. You could say this about other
areas of security in the past too. Endpoint security 10 years ago was a very hot category,
and it's created several multi-billion dollar companies, CrowdStrike and Sentinel One and others.
As you say, the reason that there's so many competitors is because
people clearly see there's a lot of value in this market. But as you think about the ecosystem of
there's many existing security tools already, and you went to RSAC and you'll see a thousand
booths and everyone has a booth. So outside of even just the AI sock space, but in security
in general, has an early stage startup that's not as much on the map as some of these incumbents.
What are the things that you find are valuable to have customers recognize you and think about you?
What are some of the tips you have for other founders in a crowded market and how to stand out?
The biggest learnings we had so far on marketing front is make sure you're very precise on how
you describe yourselves because cybersecurity is so fragmented. If you just say, "Hey, we are using
AI to solve all the problems with cybersecurity," that's not going to work because there are too
many vendors out there. But instead, you need to be very focused in your messaging and positioning.
So the prospects or security buyers can immediately tell where do you fit in the larger security
ecosystem. Because there is no security teams that only use as a single product. Most security
teams have five, 10, 15, 20 products. It's very important to be precise. So people don't kind of
conflate you with other products and they can immediately understand what you're trying to do.
And that's kind of where you mentioned RSAC. I always love RSAC and I love walking through
Expo Force because I find that to be a really good opportunity to level up on product marketing.
Like when you walk through the Expo halls and see a thousand vendors, you can really
quickly tell who has good product marketing because every time you walk through a booth,
you might have like five seconds before you start looking at the next fancy shining booth.
So within that five seconds, can you immediately tell what they're doing or you get confused?
Like, what is this thing? So I think that's actually a great exercise. Like I know I myself
have been doing and I've been encouraging a lot of folks in my company to do as well as
to really make sure our positioning and messaging is very clear. So people can immediately tell
what we're trying to do versus some, you know, kind of panacea, AI, magic.
Well, there's, and there's a lot of those, right? I mean, I think now that we're a few years into
this post chat GPT wave, we've seen so many of these vendors that say they do AI security.
And if you go to the last two RSA conferences, all you would hear is AI, AI, AI,
but then what are you actually delivering to customers, right? And so in that way,
I think it's really helpful to hear from you, Edward, about you all landed UiPath as a customer,
you know, really impressive. And they're obviously a very discerning and sophisticated business
themselves. Take us through that journey. Like, how did you land UiPath? You know, what went
into that? Are they finding value from Dropzone today? So UiPath's actually, one of their security
engineers actually reached out to me personally on LinkedIn and saying, Hey, I saw Dropzone somewhere
it seems you guys are doing interesting stuff. Guys, you don't get a demo. And then we kicked
off the POC where, you know, the end goal of the POC is to evaluate how much time saving we can
create for their security team, because the UiPath is growing very quickly. And
unsurprisingly, their security budget is not growing linearly compared to the overall headcount.
And as a result of that, yeah, during the POC, you know, we worked with UiPath very closely to
not only make sure our product is automating tasks that allow zero security engineers to,
you know, essentially get higher leverage, but also working with them to align on the future
roadmap of the product. So they are not only buying us for what the product can do today,
but also what the product can be three months, six months down the road. And that's actually
very interesting because most of the time it's founder, like reaching out to like a thousand people,
leading back in for a demo, not the other way around. And they think we actually have a very
large chunk of our customers and active prospects come from organic inbound. And I think part of
that is because echoing my previous point, by having really good positioning and messaging and
also very transparent kind of product marketing, it really allows security buyers to really find
you versus you trying to, you know, push the ropes and trying to force the product down
people's throats. And this is where we took a very conscious effort and a strategic decision
to be very transparent. For example, our entire product documentation is public on the internet.
We have over 30 interactive recorded product demos, as well as an ungated test drive and
full transparent pricing. And so we are able to allow interested early adopters within security
community to complete essentially 80% of the buyer journey without talking to us. And that
really allows us to get these high quality hand raisers who have already to some extent self
qualified themselves and know they want to try this technology. I love the point you made about
being very transparent and being open. And that's not common in security, right? I mean, there's a
lot of closed selling and you never really know how deals are done. And I think I'm sure there's
some set of new generation of buyers that want that transparency. What led you to sort of stray
from the path of what we would call as normal and security to be more transparent than what
the norm is. Yeah, I would say a lot of it actually came from my times with sexual hop. While I was
actual hop, I really advocated for an interactive online demo. And back then, actual hop probably
was the single security vendor in the entire detection and response space, where you can
access an ungated interactive demo like actual product, not like recorded video, but an actual
product. And I saw that how that how much additional credibility that marketing tactic really helped
so I decided to really bring that and keep that with drops on as well.
Well, last last point on this is that I'm sure as you've noticed,
CISOs are sold a lot of bad products, right? And we have a CISO advisory council here at
Madrona. And the one thing that they'll say is that they're just inundated with products and a lot
of inbound to them. And with you with this transparent marketing and being able to show the demo and
show the value, is there another step that needs to happen for you to bridge that gap to have them
come and say, hey, take a look at our products. Is that an evolution? How do you think about
the push versus poll nature of what you're selling and how CISOs are typically sold into?
Yeah, I think it's definitely a combination of the two. Over time, generally, what I've seen
with cyber security is initially most startups are in a push market because there's no category
awareness. Most of the security startups actually solve a problem. That's more or less
kind of obscure to the general public. So they need to do a ton of eventualization.
I would say for us, it's a little bit easier because the problem we solve, again, is one of the most
universal and concrete and well understood problem within cyber security. It's just that nobody has
been able to come up with a technical solution to actually solve it. So that definitely makes our
lives a lot easier because to some extent, we don't really need to evangelize the problem
we solve due to the fact that it's already been there for like 20 years and every single team
experiences that every single day. But I think part of getting security teams to raise their hand,
part of it also has to do with the overall macro environment. For example, I think people have
heard of Stargate Project, you know, $500 billion of investment, as well as DeepSeek and all sorts
of interesting reactions from different vendors when they really start to see competition as well
as GNAI becoming real. And I would say is that actually played in a big part as part of our
marketing tailwind because now it's actually very common for board. I mean, obviously, I'm sure you
guys have been saying the same thing to your portfolio companies, right, which is regardless
what kind of business you are in. I want to know why you are not using GNAI in every single business
function. And that's actually a question. I would say every single board has been asking,
you know, say executives. And when that trick goes down to security teams, you know, alerting
investigation and software-based staff augmentation for Salk is generally one of the first places
people look for. Yeah, and to your point, I mean, we're seeing our own companies and the
customers of the companies we work with, everyone is saying we're using AI, but they don't want to
use AI foolishly, right? They want to be smart about how they use AI. And to your point, I mean,
in the security space, it's hard to just put AI and say, hey, let's walk away, right? And
security security, right? It's a very important piece of both the application and the infrastructure
side of businesses. So being able to already have that pull from the Salk team saying, we're already
drowning in alerts. We need help. However way you can help us is going to be important. And you
can come in and execute against that, I think is really interesting. Absolutely. And the other
thing we have seen, actually, is thanks to chat GPT, I think chat GPT is probably the biggest
marketing gift open AI has given to all these gen AI startups, because they really enlightens
everybody, you know, whether they are technical or non-technical on the potential and capabilities
of gen AI or just kind of new technology. Like, I remember getting calls from my parents asking,
like, hey, you know, Edward, you have been doing AI stuff right for eight years. Why don't you,
like, this gen AI thing looks very cool, you know, why don't you go build a stock trading thing,
you know, Bob, we're using this technology. And because of that, I think that really,
you know, makes a lot of security practitioners actually started to play with this technology
themselves. We have actually seen a good number of open source projects. And some, I would say,
a good subset of the prospects we run into a lot of times, we'll be like, hey, you know,
drops on seems very cool. And by the way, we have been like internally playing with like GPTs and
trying to build our own, you know, open source AI agents to do automated small stuff within
diverse security. So we know the technology can get there, but at the same time, we know as a
security team, we are not like 100% developers. This is not our specialization. So we already
build confidence, have confidence in the technology all we need to find is a reputable trust towards
the actually technology solution provider. And that, that's meant to me again, makes it a little bit
more kind of a pool based marketing versus trying to kind of push ropes.
Yes. Well, you can tell your parents that, hey, you may not be building a stock trading app,
but stock trading apps can use drops, which is really cool. So I'm going to transition into
just some rapid fire questions we have for you, Edward, but you've been a founder for a couple
years now. You're both a solo founder and a first time founder. So what are the hardest learned
lessons that you've had so far? You know, what is something that you wish you knew or wish you
did better on this, on this early journey of yours? I would say probably is the biggest thing,
and surprisingly, as a solo first time founder with kind of engineering background is I wish
I learned more about sales before I started. One common misconception
technical founders have is as long as we build the best product on the planet,
people will magically come to us. But that's definitely not not the reality. And, you know,
sometimes you could argue it couldn't be further versus from the truth. So sales is actually
very important. To be frank, while I was extra help, I obviously had a number of engagements with
customers. But one thing I always wanted to do extra help, I wasn't able to is actually,
you can say part-time as a sales engineer for like six months. I never got a chance to do that,
even though I always had this idea in the back of my mind. But after funding drop zone, I think
that kind of forced myself to learn how to be a sales engineer as actually also how to be a
account executive. And I think those skills are tremendously important. Because if a technical
founder cannot sell a technology or product with all the vision, enthusiasm, and in-depth product
understanding, then nobody else could. So I think sales capability and knowing how to use different
techniques, how to qualify customers, actually how to have a good like sales demo, I think our key
skills, I wish I had before I got started. Great point, sales is so important. It doesn't matter
what your product or business is, sales is very important. What is something you believe about the
AI market that others may not? One thing I believe about the AI market is the fact that
distribution is going to be a very important factor. And how I think most people probably
underestimate the power of human trust and how much that plays within the overall business ecosystem.
And this is where I've seen kind of a number of startups trying to build technologies that
completely substitute certain roles and responsibilities. And I think, at least from my perspective,
I think there are roles where the technical deliverables is maybe a fraction of the value
proposition, but the other fraction is actually like this human trust, human responsibility,
ability, and accountability. So I think this is where when AI startups are looking at different
world industries and verticals and trying to identify, you know, insertion points for AI agents,
I do believe we should be very respectful of the fundamental human trust and how having
automation itself does not completely obvious. That's actually one of the reasons why I suspect
software engineers will get more automation versus, for example, account executives.
Because nobody is going to really build have a relationship with an AI agent, you know, posing
as an account executive. And this is where like this human relationship human trust building
channel is something that I think is a lot more difficult for AI to substitute.
Well, we see this when you're driving down the 101 and you see multiple AISDRs.
Which do I go with, right? Who do I have a relationship with? I'm not sure right now,
but outside of drop zone, or you can even think outside of security, what company or trend
are you most excited about? Probably robotics. Part of it is I love watching animates and there's
a number of animates where they top out future societies with all sorts of cyborgs and robots,
and I think humanoids, robots, I think those are all very cool. But also part of it is a little bit
maybe self-fulfilling because obviously as a cyber security vendor, see more robots there are
around us. I think the more important cyber security will become as well.
Okay, last question. This will be an easy one for you. There's a 90s movie with Wesley Snipes
called Drop Zone. Is the company named after that movie or what was the basis for calling the company
Drop Zone? I actually have never heard of that movie, so maybe I should check it out or maybe
ask chat GPT about it. We named the company Drop Zone because we envision the future someday in
the future when we have the resources and the needs to sponsor a Super Bowl ad. We want the ad to
involve a scene where you have cyber defenders surrounded at a hilltop overwhelmed by attackers
and a cyber defender essentially deploy Drop Zone, which is in my mind I've been thinking about some
sort of portal or Stargate kind of a warp gate kind of a construct. There will deploy this portal
and through that they can summon additional reinforcements to help them push by the attackers.
So we named the company Drop Zone because we view Drop Zone as a portal of you can say software-based
staff augmentation for cyber security teams. Love that. Well, thank you so much at work. We
really appreciate it. Great to be here.
[Music]


