
Welcome to the Deco podcast where we bring you stories from founders and investors in
Web3. Before we get started, this is not a financial or legal advice. It's just a conversation
about things we find interesting in Web3. We use expressed are our own personal opinions. Deco
members or guests appearing on the show may have positions on assets they talk about.
Although our guest this week is a managing partner of a registered investment advisor,
nothing in this podcast should be considered an offer of multi-coins investment advisory
services or should otherwise be confused for investment, tax, legal or other financial advice.
Alright, welcome to another episode of the Deco podcast. Joel and I are hosting Kyle
Samari. He's a managing partner and founder at Multico and Capital. Welcome to the show, Kyle.
Hey, it's our withdrawal pleasure to be on the show. Thanks for having me on.
So we typically get into people's background, but I think I have a different idea of how to do
that here. Kyle, I mean, while I was preparing, I was going through your blog way back till
January of 3rd, 2013. I think that's when you started writing publicly. Yeah, since then,
you've written about bunch of topics like from healthcare to monitor reviews to Apple Watch,
Google Glass and whatnot. And interestingly, in 2015, I see this article titled Bitcoin will
disrupt working capital management. Right, so let's just start there.
Oh, man. I don't even remember the post you were referring to. He said 2015? 2015. Yeah,
I think November 2015. I mean, that's wow. That's before I even really got in the crypto.
I honestly don't even, what did I say? Oh, you were basically saying that Bitcoin will be
the payment rails of the internet. And since we can make more frequent and micro-level payments,
it will improve working capitals of like typical businesses. That was the thesis.
I see. I see. I was very funny to reflect on that. At the time, you know, I was 25 years old at
that time and was very biased towards there's always a new technology and a new technology always
wins at the expense of the old technology. And I didn't appreciate inertia and a bunch of other
things. I also did not understand fully how Bitcoin worked. I just never bothered to really understand
proof of work and all the scalability challenges at that time. I really correct understanding of
that blog post. I was very pro new software things without much regard for other variables.
To be honest, I think if you replace Bitcoin with stable coins, I think that blog post still kind
of holds true. That I would agree with, but obviously stable coins were not a thing.
We certainly did not have high performance chains either back then as well. So that part,
I agree with just the Bitcoin part, both as a technology and as a volatile asset, I do not agree
with. Okay. So between 2015 and you starting multi-coin, like what was that journey and like
where you always this thing that you wanted to start to find? How did it start? Yeah, so I kind of
left my last company was called pristine in December of 2015. I was working in healthcare,
was pretty jaded by healthcare and they don't want to stay in healthcare and was kind of poking
around everything to do. Discovered Ethereum in March of 2016 and started kind of poking around
at Ethereum and found it to be just very flexible and interesting. And that's what I liked about it.
And so over the course of kind of the next three, four months or so,
kind of fell down the Ethereum rabbit hole, you know, Auger had already done its ICO,
Zcash was getting ready to launch. Maneroa was around. I think there was a couple of other
2016 ARICOs and you could kind of, and then I'll leave the doubt, the doubt, a hard fork happened.
And so there was actually just like a lot of stuff happening to Ethereum at that time.
And I kind of thought of getting more and more interested by the beginning of 2017. By this
point, I've already probably by really shortly after the Dow hard fork, maybe one or two months
after the Dow fork, I kind of went all in Ethereum, put basically my whole net worth in. And by early
2017, I realized I was reading about crypto on the internet effectively 40 hours a week. And I was
like, you know, a poly chain and launched in September of 2016, coin fund was around all the early
poly chain, I'd say was the more direct inspiration for us to get started. And I remember when Olaf
launched poly chain, I was like, I don't know, I do this market seems kind of too weird. And by
March, April of 2017, I started to think it was not super weird or was undoable. And the thing
that ultimately gave Tushar and I the conviction to, you know, commit our lives to this was the
notice is ICO. It was May of 2017. And they raised $12 million in, I believe, two blocks.
And out of $300 million valuation. And that was our, okay, like, we got to go. Now is the time.
And so that's when Tushar and I committed to launch multi coin was kind of right in the wake of
the notice is ICO. It took us a few months to figure out how to set multi coin up, because we did not
know how to set up a funds. But over the course of the summer, got the fun set up and launched what
is now a multi coins hedge fund product on October 1st of 2017. Yeah, so it's been like seven years
now. Recently, that's correct. That's fun. Just turn seven. And I think when I went to multi coins
website, it says that crypto will create the largest one time shifting wealth in the history
of internet. I mean, can you unpack this for us? Yeah, probably the most true part of that statement
is the mechanical parts, which is weird. And like traditionally, you know, three years major
class assets in the world, bonds, equities and commodities, and you know, all of those have
their own mechanical, whether it's the DTCC or whatever else, or you know, you have a certificate
for a bar of gold and a balls or maybe you have a piece of gold under your mattress, whatever it
is. But there's been a very established set of mechanisms for literally owning and transferring
those three asset classes. And crypto very obviously invented a new one, which is the self custody
private key thing. And you know, for that reason, huge amounts of capital in the world are structurally
either unable or unwilling to own these assets. And at some point, if you assume that mechanical
reason will stop being a reason to not own, then it simply means by just being there before them,
like you make money. And so that's like, not typically the intended understanding of the
statement and it's really not probably something we intended to say an intention behind a statement
when we made that statement, which with this point was five years ago, maybe six years ago.
But something I've kind of come to appreciate now that I've been doing this for a while,
and I talked to a bunch of big investors pretty frequently, is the mechanical part is real.
I think the other part of that statement is, you know, these systems just represent fundamentally
new mechanisms for capital formation and for humans to coordinate in a way that just didn't
not exist previously. And, you know, in some sense, like, what is the story of humanity over the last
you have few millennia, or even say 100 millennia is people thinking how to coordinate, you know,
I'm sitting in a high rise right now. And like, obviously, a high rise, I think is a great example
of like, how many people did it take to like build the building so it doesn't collapse?
You know, on my Wi-Fi at the top of the building. So that element of it and like crypto is really
human coordination on steroids in a lot of ways. So I'd say those are like two very profound
big ideas that I think collectively lead to the output of largest one time, you know,
wealth creation event in the history of the internet.
I think I just want to double tap on that, right? Do you think that wealth creation at such scale
happened when the internet was taking off? I mean, it happened at scale. It's definitely not at this
scale. I believe the entirety of the 2000 NASDAQ bubble was on the order of a trillion dollars
in market cap. Maybe more, maybe one and a half or two. Let's just round up and say two trillion.
Crypto is kind of a two trillion right now, I think. Less or minus? Yep. And yeah, crypto's got
a long way to run. So actually, there's a third part of that, which is, sorry, if your original
question has just occurred to me, is the nature of permissionless ownership? My guess like no more
than one billion people on the planet Earth own liquid, investable assets. Definitely more than a
billion, like, owns some real estate because I was going to a lot of emerging markets like
people own their primary residence and stuff. But a huge, huge percent of the world owns effectively
zero liquid investments. And it's pretty obvious to me that the substantial majority of those 7
billion people who don't own any liquid investments are going to own crypto before they own Apple
and Google. That to me is, I don't even understand the other side of that argument.
Is that because of social media? What do you reckon the cause is out? Yeah, I mean,
so some legal regulatory things, just like accessibility, the fact that it's self-costity
is a huge deal for a lot of people. Their first Bitcoin is not going on an exchange and buying
it. It's their friend sending, either giving them some for free or you hand your friend 50 bucks
and your friend sends you $50 worth of Bitcoin. And like, you just can't do that with equities.
So there's like a very mechanical heart, which is that. And then, will you alluded to the social
media part or what I would just call the information part? You know, learning about Apple is quite
frankly, pretty boring. Learning about helium or eigen layer or hive mapper is just like, I think
it's called Crip Talk and like in Nectic Talk investing. And like, just spend 20 minutes scrolling,
man. And like, look at the crypto people and look at the equities people. And I can tell you
the crypto people are unilaterally more entertaining than the equities people. I think just one point
to add here is quite probably stable coins are the Trojan horse that takes some of these assets to
the people, right? Just like Tic Tocos. There's a lot more people can access stable coins before
they can access banking in the current world. So yeah, I mean, stable coins are obviously huge.
I was just eluding to, you know, volatile crypto, but I was spending a lot of time with politicians
recently, you know, multi coin has been very publicly involved with current US election cycle.
And I think I kind of started telling politicians and I've kind of come to think is
underappreciated in crypto circles is US dollars are the greatest product in human history,
not like the iPhone or whatever. But like on the basis of it's the thing that the most people want.
And I think if you go around the world, I think if you could go to each of the 8 billion people on
the planet Earth and ask them, you know, the following question without any fear of local
persecution, if you could dominate your wealth in any asset, what would it be? And that could be
bars of gold, could be apple stock, could be US dollars, euros, Singaporean dollars, yen,
pick your asset of choice. My guess is somewhere between four and seven billion of those people
would say US dollars. And so I think a very literal sense US dollars are the most in demand product
in the human history. I want to double click on something you mentioned that you went to
shove and tall in on Ethereum. Right. At what point that stopped being the case?
I don't remember the date, but you can look it up. It was at DevCon 3 in November of 2017 in
Kenkin, Mexico. Multi coin is six weeks old at this point. And if it's basically peak of the market,
November of 2017, Ethereum is up a hundred X year to date at this moment in time. Obviously all the
ICOs, all in Ethereum, Silicon Valley is getting excited. Coinbase emerges as like a real company
in 2017. Binance emerges. I mean, times 20th and then team was like a pivotal year for crypto.
Ethereum is a star of the show, like no question to ask Bitcoin, like what's up 10x Ethereum is
up a hundred X that year. And gas fees are spiking left and right. Every time there's an ICO,
gas fees spike, you know, takes minutes to include a transaction, all of which was expected behavior,
like none of this was like, Oh, wow, like where did this come from? They knew when they launched
this thing in 2015, all of these problems were going to happen. And over the course of 2017,
you know, every few days, the network is having, you know, real congestion problems and stuff.
It obviously, they know this and they've been talking about scaling for a while.
And back then there was plasma, there was state channels, there was hypercube routing,
there was sharding, a whole bunch of ideas. And you know, I remember I went to DevCon and I was like,
okay, guys, you know, you have a talent in core EF people, all eyes are on Ethereum.
You were the star of the show in 2017, the greatest year in human history for an asset.
Ethereum is the fastest asset in human history to $100 billion in market capitalization.
Nothing else has come close. And actually maybe Solana did, but that was after the few years later.
Anywho, so, you know, you have the business spectacular run, you're the center of attention,
and you know, you need to figure out scaling. It's your annual developer conference.
Everyone wants to know what's the game plan. And you go to the keynote from the founder and
Vitalik gives you a history of Ethereum, because I was on his mind. I don't really know.
I got to the keynote an hour early to like, I sat like in the front row. And I like left and
I was like, are you fucking kidding? Like, how can you be so clueless as to like,
what is going on in the world? And to like, not understand like, what you need to do,
and just entirely oblivious. And so that was my moment of like, these people are clueless.
I was already bringing frustrated. I mean, at this point in time, Ethereum is almost two and a half
years old. I've been following Ethereum at this point in time for about 18 months. And I'm getting
antsy. I'm like, Hey, like, God, what's fucking plan? And like, it's like, this is clearly the
moment of the place you are supposed to unveil the plan and nothing. So like, was that the point
that drove you towards yours? And oh, yeah, immediately we began searching for alternatives
immediately after that con. And yeah, my follow up was that is Solana, what you'd
your hope yours would be? In one sense, in one word, yes. I mean, that's a little crude, but like,
sure, like, I also want to follow up on like, what happened with yours later on? And like,
how did you switch over to Solana? Was the story something similar to what was happening with Ethereum?
Yeah, I mean, look, we started looking right after DEF CON. I think we initiated our first
EOS position, I believe in December of 2017. So, you know, few weeks later. And I mean, EOS was,
in many ways, the opposite of Ethereum, big blocks, Dan Larimer had been around for a while, you know,
they had raised a bunch of money. They were very aggressive. Like, you didn't have to look very
hard. Like, understand that like, these two teams were approaching the problems from almost
opposite vantage points in kind of all respects. And that appealed to us. We were like, great,
like, I don't want something that looks 96% like Ethereum, and it's 3% different. I want something
that looks totally different. And that's exactly what EOS was. And it was very clearly the most
credible alternative of that time period. So it was just kind of a no brainer that we would end up
there. In fairness to the Ethereum people, there were a lot of criticisms of EOS in terms of its
gas model is the one that I recall most directly. I think there was also some known problems with
its deposs consensus as well. And the theory of people like, yo, guys, your system is broken.
Like, it's not going to work. And our view was, dude, these are mechanical details. Like, they'll
get figured out whatever who cares. And to credit the Ethereum people, they were absolutely right.
Those systems, those problems were fundamental. And that's my knowledge, never actually fixed.
And those issues are probably what led to the ultimate demise and fall of EOS.
Kyle, did you guys at any point in time look at L2 solutions on ETH? Like, there were a few
in 2017 ETH ecosystem as far as that. Or like 2018, let's say.
Oh, the term L2 did not exist at the time at all. There was discussion of the closest concepts to
what we now call L2s were state channels. There was one called Raiden and Pladma,
which would fit under the academic efforts from an L2 today. But in practice, Pladma just doesn't
solve any problems for anyone. So no one's fucking building it. But the term L2 did not exist.
Raiden was around. They did raise money. They did an ICO. Obviously, they've done nothing.
In the six years since then, seven years since then. Pladma has also
basically only existed in academic, I mean, there's probably some proof of concepts that were,
you know, written like of, but no one has actually seriously tried to productize plasma to the best
of my knowledge. So, you know, other people came up with ideas on how to scale Ethereum
in the ensuing years. One was called scale, SKLE, which we did invest in at some point in 2018.
And then the term L2 may have been like loosely thrown around in 2017 and 18.
But really had no defined meaning at all. I think L2 came to have a more concrete shape as kind of
the roll-up terminology came into existence. And if I recall that that kind of initial terminology
was spearheaded by, I think, was Carl Thorish of the EF. And then he later became one of the
founders of optimism. And he worked on some of that other sort of research and thinking,
I believe with Vitalik. This is probably 2020. Yeah, I'm guessing this is early 2020.
I don't think we have mentioned Ethereum as an L1 to begin with back in 2017. Like, yeah.
You didn't have to, right? Because there was no reference, I mean.
Yep. It was literally the only thing around. There was absolutely nothing else.
I think just double tapping on this, right? I know you gave a few reasons as to why EOS
didn't work out. You know, did you guys at any point in time see DAPs or, you know,
any kind of initiative that went towards making EOS commercially viable to use LANA is today?
I'm trying to remember what apps were around. And we looked at a bunch of EOS-based applications
in 2018. Yeah. I cannot recall any of their names specifically off the top of my head.
So that tells you what you need to know. That makes sense. Since then, Kyle, I mean,
you guys start looking for alternatives. And at the same time, the fund is also taking shape.
You guys are probably hiding, expanding the team. So how has the seven years been for you guys?
Like, if you can share some broad strokes inside view of multi-coin, so to speak with us.
Yeah, I'd say it really took us a few years to figure out who we are. Or I should say like how
we want to operate as an investment firm. I'd say probably four years is probably pretty good
assessment of that. You know, in the first few years, we were doing at least two major things
that we are no longer doing, one of which is we had an internal quant team. We were trying to
build a quant strategy with the hope that we could eventually launch a dedicated quant fund
in addition to our hedge fund, which is a buy and hold type vehicle. And we ended up
grabbing that during that all the way, wasn't working. The second major thing we were doing
that we don't do today is we were actively trading data. Today, our fund strategy is we're
99% met long, very straightforward. That's not like hard and fast rule, but I mean like,
directionally, that is true. And we are obviously very long biased fund. And we realized our core
strength was asset selection and this is formation. And we became very comfortable with that fact,
and came to learn how to talk about that with our investors and obviously focus all of our
team's efforts around that. So I think that was like the big thing we had to figure out.
And it took us a few years to figure it out. I think, I mean, I think most fund managers should
have more clarity on those questions when they launched their funds. We did not, and I think the
reason we did not was our own naivety. I mean, Tushar and I were 27 when we launched multi-coin.
I was 27, Tushar, I think I was 26. And we had never worked at an asset management firm before.
So we had no formal training whatsoever from another firm. And then the market was just like
extremely wild enough that we kind of just felt like, hey, we can like, there's easy
money to be made in all these different places. Probably mostly it was just our own naivety
about like how to build an asset management business. We feel pretty confident now that, you know,
we're generally in our swim lane. And to be clear, I actually think it's important that you
step out of your strike zone every now and again. You should never be too rigid in your strategy,
but you should know what your strike zone is. You should be aiming to play in your strike zone at
least 90% of the time. I think somewhere between five and 10% of the time, it's very much warranted
to kind of deviate from your strike zone. And then if and when you are going to deviate from
your strike zone, you need to be very clear about why you're doing so. Yeah, it took us a
while to figure all that out. I think Kyle, do you think the market would be as patient? Like,
you said you took four years to figure out, you know, the comfort zone, right? If you were starting
off today, do you think it would have just taken you as long to figure out what your strike zone is?
And do you think the markets would be vision enough for that?
I think 27-year-old Kyle would fail launching multi-coins today. Unclear what 34-year-old Kyle
launching in 2024 would do. And obviously I'll have seven years of my life for being multi-coins. So
it's hard to reflect on counterfactual Kyle who did not do multi-coin. The reason why I was
curious is, you know, I think that the period between 2017 to 2021 was relatively more forgiving
versus the market now. Or maybe you have a different view of it and that is the market was way more
brutal back then. I agree. I think the markets are becoming less forgiving over time. I mean,
that's the new set, right? I mean, it has to. Well, sorry. So I think it's a general statement
that is true and that's like a function of market efficiency. However, the extreme
inefficiencies could actually lead you to blowing up in some ways easier back in the day. Most
often you're just trading anything with leverage. I mean volatility has decreased substantially.
Back in the day, trading a random altcoin with leverage on OKX in 2019,
like that was a recipe for disaster. It's still possible to blow yourself up doing that now,
but it's definitely harder. Not that we do that, but just as an abstract statement. There are new
ways to blow up, but it's getting harder to outperform. That is for sure the case. Possibly,
it's getting easier to not blow up. I was discussing multi-coin with sort of prior to this. And one
of the things I flagged to him is that the coolest thing that multi-coin did is it lasted for seven
years, right? If you consider the number of funds that have lasted for seven years,
that's so few. And I was just like, you know, props to Kyle and team for that.
Thank you for his word. I agree.
It was the morning thing we did, but did not die.
OK, so if you were to launch an L1 or an L2 to compete Solana today, what would it look like?
I don't have any good answers. I've been talking to a lot of people building our
L1s and L2s about these kinds of questions on a fairly regular cadence, and I got nothing.
I just did nothing specific. I think to the extent I'm forced to answer the question,
I would approach it like the say guys did, which when we invested in say it was a couple years ago,
and the say guys said, look, if you're even Solana claimed to be neutral,
and as a result of that, there's all of these either bad or inefficient design decisions in
their systems. And we are going to not be neutral. We are going to explicitly violate
quote unquote neutrality in the interest of building a better product and their
developer experience and save you for one launched. And there was like a permission
validator set, and they gave I think like a CLOP primitive was built into the chain,
and I think they prioritize Oracle update at the top of the block. And there were like a few other
things of that kind of nature that they did that like definitely not as neutral as Ethereum and
Solana are. And I think they made the right set of decisions. They're thinking I think was correct.
Obviously, say V1 did not attract meaningful adoption, and they pivoted into what is now
say V2, which is a parallel EVM thing. We'll see where that goes. But you know, I think the
second iteration of that same experiment, I mean, one iteration like Iran was dydx,
which their V4. Well, there was a stock improvement in the V4 cosmos version, and it seems like the
Cosmos version was actually steps backwards net net, which is a real shame. And then, you know,
the other kind of more modern iteration of that same theory is hyper liquid, which is basically
taking the same set of opinions that say it, and then going even once the further, and they
actually built their own perp decks as well. And so, you know, to the extent that I would
launch a new L1 or L2, it would probably be along the lines of what hyper liquid is doing.
Fair. I think you've been quite vocal about MEV being a major model of value accrual for L1s,
like versus the fees and DFEs and all other kinds of fees, because they are tending towards zero
over time with better infrastructure and hardware. Like, how do you think of this MEV? Like,
should it go back to where it originated from, like, what guys think about, or should it go to,
like, searches and validators? I mean, I think the searches share is also going to go down as
probably 10-20% max. Most of it will be captured by validators. So, I just want to understand how
you think about MEV alternatives. So, there's no generic answer between, like, wallets,
takers, makers, validators, and searchers. There's no generic way to answer, like, split that percentage
up to collect them out to 100% of, like, what should be the market equilibrium? And the reason
there isn't a generic answer is because, like, they're fundamentally different kinds of MEV in
different contexts and situations. And, like, let me unpack probably the two most important categories,
or maybe three most important categories. The most high-profile category is sandwiching,
or just straight front-learning, which is very common today on both the Ethereum and Solana.
And that type of MEV searchers are capturing, I don't know, some members between 50 and 80%,
and then the balance is going to the validator via priority fees. That will go to 0% searchers,
high degree of confidence in that statement over the next few years. Searchers are strictly leeches,
and I think it's important to understand them as leeches. And everyone in the ecosystem should
actively fight them and can fight them, and I expect searchers will not against 0, but will
trend towards 0%. The second major category is sex-dexarbs, which, like, is totally fine to me.
Searchers would go out fun, fight as hard as you want on whatever statistical models you want on
these things. Validators will get some, searchers will get some. Great. There's no creation of MEV
here. I mean, the creation of the MEV is the LPs are stupid and leaving money in the AMM. And
if the LPs are the one leaving the money in the AMM, they should lose the money. I got like,
there's no basis for them to be rebated. It's like, no, that's what you signed up for, explicitly.
Or if you're a market maker and you have a limit order on the book and you get picked off, like,
again, you know, I mean, that's an engineering optimization challenge in your own infrastructure.
So again, I feel no sympathy for you, and like, you should get picked off and searchers should
take some of your money. That's fine. And then the third major category is just what I'm going to
call like application-specific MEV. So this would be like, backrunning an Oracle, or like,
a liquidating someone on like Aave or Drift or something, you know, one of these kinds of things.
And in those systems, again, you can take searchers to pretty close to zero. You don't have to take
them absolutely zero. You need them to have some incentive to act. But that incentive can be fairly
low. And the vast majority of that value should accrue either to, you know, the DAO, like the Drift
Hour, Community Hour or something, if it's like a liquidation relative to one of those systems,
or it in the words to accrue to validate your validators in the form of priority fees from
the searchers. But like, you know, there's obviously a matter of if the liquidation penalty is 100
points, you know, 80 points can route to the app to the DAO, meaning, you know, or Drift. And,
you know, 20 points goes to searchers. And then searchers are going to have to pay some
percent of that in the form of priority fees, you know, to the validator for inclusion.
I think this is what Uber guys are building, right, Joel? The OAV, like, I think...
Yep, exactly exactly the value.
Correct. Yeah. So, Pith, we're going to post about this a few months ago, basically just,
it's a backrunning auction. Right. So obviously, again, ties into all of the above.
But what I'm also hearing is it's not profitable enough to be doing any of this,
you know, post priority fees and validator incentives and the like. Do you think that
search operations are worth investing in at this point in time? Would you invest in a business that
explicitly? I mean, if you generally have a background in HFT and our market making,
yes, otherwise now. Okay. So, like, you're saying that, okay, I mean,
is one of the major sources of value accrual for L bonds. So, how does that value accrual to the
tokens? Like, can we just bring it home? Yeah. Anytime someone pays a priority fee to the
validator, then that's going to the validator and then the validator is repaying, typically,
the vast majority of that fee. And now, in some cases, 100% of that fee to stakers.
And so, none of the L1 too much, I mean, to be frank, I think two of them claim to be money.
I think it's Bitcoin and it, they call themselves ultra sound money. And although,
I don't think the meme holds true any longer because it's not been deflationary or whatever.
So, is it strictly that accrual value, I mean, a source of value for L1s or like,
do you think of there's anything else as well? Like the money-ness as such.
I think the money-ness thing is real. Clearly, Bitcoin is a non sovereign store of value.
That's not really a question because it, quite frankly, is nothing like there's no way to
explain a trillion dollars of market cap in Bitcoin. I've never even seen another
plausible explanation for that. Now, that's a different question than, is that a good thesis
for good theory? I would contend the answer to that is no, it is not. But like, clearly,
a lot of people believe in it and put their money where their mouth is. I think the mechanics,
I think the way people talk about money-ness is mostly incorrect. The traditional view of
money-ness as espoused by the Bitcoin people is based on a fairly simple set of criteria.
Most importantly, the supply schedule in Bitcoin's case, obviously famously, is 21 million.
It also includes a few other parameters. You know, can you validate the block at home?
That's a very Bitcoin-centric statement, but like, sure, I can see how that lends itself
quote unquote towards being money. Although, I think that's basically nonsense. You know,
center to persistence, I think, is like, if you're going to claim to be non-sovere money,
I do think you need to have a credible claim to center to persistence. People say Bitcoin's
the most center to persistence of the major chains today. I don't think that statement is
meaningfully true. Yeah, I mean, the mining pool is like, what, four mining pools or something,
maybe 51%. And it's just generally the number of mining pools is fairly limited. And that
just really skews Bitcoin's economic and sensibility in pretty negative ways. And then obviously,
there's like another element. Fairly obvious one is just like, hey, how like, usable is it?
And like, if I send you tokens, like, do you feel like you got them instantly or like,
forget about me trying to rob Binance of a billion dollars, like, if I send you tokens,
then I can just double spend and do another zero con from, you know, a higher fee. Someone
else is like, I can just walk off. That's like not a good user experience for money. And like,
in Bitcoin today, it's trivial, you know, to do that. Obviously, you're probably not going to
do that at the $4 level, like cup of coffee level. But like, at the $5,000 level, like,
you could see a lot of malicious people, you know, trying to do that.
So it was just obviously like kind of crappy in those dimensions. But like,
where Bitcoin shines supply schedule, $21 million, like, no questions asked, it is the most
predictable assets in human history on that dimension. Where I think the money people have
gone wrong is they overemphasize that one dimension at the expense of all of the others.
And like, yes, look, Bitcoin provides nine nines of probability around the supply schedule,
as we approach 21 million in the year, 2140 or whatever it is. Well, like, dude, like nine
nines and three nines, like, I don't think that matters. And so that's, to me, is like a major
point where I diverge from everyone else. Ethereum people, I think very stupidly,
leaned into the same basic framing and said, well, yeah, our running program will like, great,
sure. But ultra sound money, deflationary, aha, we got you Bitcoin, we ought to do its
your own game. And I think that was just like a very stupid thing to do, because I think it's
like, yeah, you're focusing on the thing that like, even if you are correct that these stays
perpetually deflationary, like you can't prove that it will be deflationary. And so there's
fundamentally, right, it's not predictable supply schedule. And so like, it's like a
too smart by half. I'm like, no, dude, like the point of the 21 million is that it's
knowable ahead of time, which it is fundamentally not for Ethereum.
So I think that they like pick the wrong variable and then pick the losing argument for the wrong
variable soul. And then I look at someone up, look, I'll be the first person to tell you, I don't
make soul as money or whatever. But like, since soul is obviously comparable to eth and Bitcoin
as like a L one asset, let's at least continue this framing for the purposes of soul, I wrote
a blog post in 2018, I think it was called path, the tens of trillions or something to that effect.
And in it, I laid out what I call the utility thesis of money, which is the one of these systems
that becomes the most widely used will be the one that like, its native asset becomes money.
And to me, you know, coming back to the original framing of like,
censorship, resistance, usability, I see a world pretty clearly, you know, in three years,
I think soul is substantially more censorship resistant in a world of multiple confirmed
block producers than Bitcoin ever can't possibly hope to be or that even Ethereum, at least based
on my current understanding of the roadmap, can hope to be the credible part, obviously Bitcoin
is not even relevant. Can you unpack that? That it will be more sensitive person. Oh, I mean,
if we're in a world three or four years from now, in which the Solana blockchain mainnet has 20,
30, 40, 50 concurrent block producers, that's my base case. That is just objectively way more
censorship resistant than a system with a single leader. Because now it's like, you send it to
the guy and the guy says, no, it's like, fine, just like, go to the next guy. You got 30 others
to choose from who are block building now. And I was presumably in the next one or two seconds,
that's going to rotate anyways. And then, obviously, there's like latency of like, hey,
I don't have to go across the position to like get to the leader. I can like, there's a guy,
you know, presumably within a few hundred miles of me. And then there's the, the
primal part. But, but I think like the system that ultimately powers the most economic activity,
which I, again, at this point, my base case is Solana, that will be the one that most people will
be like, oh, okay, this is the one like, fast forward five, six years from now, let's assume
the least 500 million DAUs of like some combination of these chains, whether it's Ethereum, Solana,
sweet, after whatever. The only thing that I can tell you with 100% probability about that
state of the world is Bitcoin still does what it does now, which is it's fucking inert and dumb,
it doesn't do anything and it's still slow and shitty. And I think everyone in the world will
be like, Bitcoin, like, oh, yeah, it's like the Boomer coin, like, I don't know, doesn't, doesn't
do anything. You know, today, like, does my mom know how AWS works? No. Does my mom understand that
AWS powers Netflix? Yeah. I don't mean that like she literally knows Netflix is the largest
customer, but like generically, she understands like when she hits the play button on Netflix,
there are some cloud server somewhere that happens to be Amazon or Microsoft or Google,
but it's like one of the three big ones that like powers the show. And I believe we will be in a
state of the world. I don't think it's clear. She does not have to understand that fact.
Like there's nothing requiring her to understand what AWS is, but just because like she functions
on the planet earth and reads on the internet, like she understands that. And I believe we'll
be in the state of the world, five, six, seven years from now, in which everyone will understand
that I think it will be Solana will be powering the substantial majority of these global financial
transactions. And if we are in the state of the world, in which that is generally common knowledge,
then I expect soul will be the number one asset in that state of the world.
Kyle, which would be those applications? Let's say your mom is using an application seven years
out and it's based off Solana. What would it be? Just how do you get a gauge of?
Oh, it's going to be just finance generally. Could be helium and stuff like that. It doesn't
have to be that my mom is using anything that touches crypto directly. I mean, look, if Visa is
settling, I mean, look, it can be a case that like my mom swipes her credit card or uses apple pay.
And then it's just public information that Visa is coordinating the settlement on of USDC on
Solana rails from my mom's bank to the merchant's bank. I wouldn't call that an app of crypto because
like in her mind, literally choose the wife of her credit card and then the same way she does today.
But as long as that understanding is public information, which again, I expect it will be
over some period of time, then the chain that powers that I expect its native asset will be
number one in crypto. Because I think everyone will look around and they'll be like Bitcoin,
that's fucking boomer coin. What does this do? And this other one powers all of these important
finance things. I'll just push back on that Bitcoin bet, right? I would think that it's just like gold.
People will probably think that it's just one of many things that people can just buy.
Gold is not used for fintech. Gold is used for store value. It can do the boomer thing and still
be relevant, so to speak. Sure. Yeah. I mean, that statement is obviously true. Again,
what I am underwriting is a derivation from the status quo. What everyone 900% of people in crypto
are projecting about Bitcoin in the future is that you can generally take history up to the
current moment in time and reasonably project that that same general lens will persist.
Like I'm not stupid and I'm not like misunderstanding history up until now. I am explicitly projecting
a fundamental change in perception in the same way that like, I think, I mean, if you look at like
the early media around computers in like the late 80s and early 90s,
Bill Gates was like, computers are going to change all white color work. And you're going to sit
at a computer type all day. And everyone's like, are you fucking crazy? These things are horrible.
And this is dumb. And it's bad. And like, obviously, the perception of computers have changed
very substantially over that period of time. And what I am explicitly underwriting is that
the default perception will be Bitcoin and Solana look kind of the same to me. They're both
call of crypto. They both kind of use this cryptography thing. I don't really know how it works. They both
have these funny long addresses that I can't fucking read. They both move money around clearly.
And like Solana powers, all the useful stuff and Bitcoin did not, you know, at some point,
whether it's in four years or nine years, will be at a point at which everyone in the world
generally understands that to be true. And in that state of the world, I don't understand why
like Sol is not split to Bitcoin. I think that's a generally your way of framing how you look at
the world and investing in general, right? Like, I think you're comfortable betting against the
status quo, so to speak. If you were to restart history in 2024, I mean, assume we have the fiat
money system as we have it now, because that is what we have now. Gold would not be thing.
Gold is only a thing because of its historical relevance. And then history is path dependence.
So like, I understand why gold is what it is today. Although I disagree with it,
but like that fine. But like, that doesn't therefore mean digital gold will be
functionally equivalent to regular gold. That's the jump that 99% of people on crypto make.
And that's actually the jump that I think is like fundamentally unsubstantiated,
because that is in and of itself, it's on form of projection.
That's a beautiful framing, by the way. Yeah. Does this follow the reasoning by analogy?
Analogy doesn't work. Like, and is that, is it something that you guys internalize at multi-coin?
No, I've never explicitly not like Bitcoin for that reason. But now that you mention it,
I've got another talking point. Thank you very much.
All right. Okay. So I've seen your Solana will flip Ethereum talk, I think, a couple of times
to prepare for this. So you talk about the Nordstar Ethereum, not having one, and Solana
consistently having one, right? And then, like, you lay a case as to how Solana has improved upon
metrics and so on, right? So I saw one video of Seridam and Lily, and they were going back and
forth. I think this was at the time, at the time of breakpoint or somewhere around that, right?
Seridam was arguing for Ethereum, and Lily was arguing for Solana. I think they almost tried to
answer each of those questions or comments towards the other party. But one thing that I think was
left was Seridam mentioned this that, let's say I'm a builder, and here I have to choose between
these two systems, right? One is very difficult to change. Probably it needs approval of 500 people
for the thing to change, meaningfully. That is Ethereum. Whereas Solana, it can decide and ship
out a phone in probably a couple of quarters or three quarters or a year or whatever.
So for Solana, it doesn't take much to internalize things in its protocol,
versus I know a fact that if I'm building a data availability layer or whatever in Ethereum,
the chain is not going to try and compete against me in that particular domain.
So he was laying the case basically for credible neutrality and saying that that is the credible
neutrality that Ethereum offers, and that's why he chose Ethereum. I'm probably paraphrasing a lot,
but he was arguing a lot of these lines. And I don't think there was enough time for Lily to
respond to that. So if you can, that would be great. I have a lot of responses. One,
the core gatekeepers of both the Ethereum and the Solana roadmaps are very centralized,
and neither of the ecosystems goes out of its way to make it crystal clear exactly
who has social power or not. Because you ask around in the kind of both ecosystems,
the answer you kind of come to is whoever controls the engineering roadmap for onza,
and then the equivalent functions for the five or six different Ethereum client themes.
And actually, there's a lot of things. For example, Vitalik recently proposed the 33%
blob size increase like a month or two ago and was shot down by the engineering leads.
So my point is that the number of decision makers as it pertains to controlling commits
to the canonical client, you know, GitHub repositories is very limited,
like on the order of like five people per ecosystem, not meaningfully larger than that.
And then now there's an epic question of validators and like, look, if the guys like update the thing
and like just change inflation and print themselves a bunch of tokens, hopefully the validators
will catch that ahead of time and like it won't happen. So like, there are some checks and balances
in both systems. Again, I don't think there's a meaningful difference between 3000 and 10,000
as it pertains to like catching something of that nature. So I disagree with the first point you
said, which is Shreem, I was like, Oh, 500 people have to refer Ethereum that not in practice how
EIPs are emerging to these systems, because there is a VP of Eng in each who controlled each code base
who ultimately chooses what goes in or not. So that's comment one comment to, you know, Shreem,
saying a lot of people presumably are more inclined to at the base layer, you know, move up the stack
or launch adjacent products that could theoretically compete with competitors. I think that's correct.
I don't really disagree with the assertion. I just like don't think it matters. Like,
okay, look, if you're building something that is adjacent or tangential to the L1 in some way,
and if the L1 core L1 team chooses to compete with you, like, sorry, should I luck, man? I don't
care. Am I worried that like, salon is going to compete with helium? Like, no, like, I've known
Amir and the helium team from the beginning. And like, those are not words they have ever said,
they're just like, doesn't fucking matter. So like, when your worldview is focused on L1 adjacent
infrastructure, like, look at the threat, but like, fine, if Google's made up and can teach you
tomorrow, like, doesn't fucking matter, it doesn't matter. Like, other people showed up to compete
with you. So I don't know, I just don't care. And then third point, or it's more like a 2B point,
is like, Shreem on based on this logic is saying, therefore, Ethereum is more credibly neutral than
Solana. And I agree as a general statement, credible neutrality is a great worth optimizing for
in these systems, where I dis diverge from Shreem is in his framing as like, ah, this is the one
vector of credible neutrality that rules all of the others. And that I like strongly disagree with.
Clearly, credible neutrality has a lot of elements to it. And like, one is, you know,
not commodity coefficient, another would be the number of clients, another would be the number of
validators, a number would be a stake distribution. Like, there's a lot of these things that go into,
like, a system as a whole being credibly neutral. And certainly the one that the true
ROM highlight is like, to me, very obviously not the most important one. If you told, I had to
shoot, like, what's the most important vector through which I think about credible neutrality,
I think it would probably be not commoto coefficient, because that's like, how many people it takes
to stop the chain from finalizing. That strikes me, it's kind of the most simple and objective
measure. But again, that is prudent and incomplete. Yeah.
All right. So you mentioned that multi coin is long only and typically good at taking bets
on the basis of thesis. Everyone knows that you were incredibly successful at some of the thesis.
Can you share one instance where you worked? And how did you recognize that, like, was that
an early detection? It took time for you guys to realize that, okay, this is not working out.
One instance of how that panned out. I'll say finance, I guess. You know, we were the first,
I think, large U.S. funds to kind of publicly go along Binance, basically. We wrote a paper in
February of 2019. It was called BNB analysis and valuation. We put on a big position in BNB. We were
right. Binance, basically, continued to consolidate market share. We basically have the next four to
five years, really up until the thing a year ago when the DOJ announced the thing with Binance and
CZ. But basically, Binance's market share chart was generally up into the right over that period.
FTX came in there and obviously disappeared along the way. And we basically got everything right
about the thesis, but we actually just didn't hold. We switched very famously. We were obviously
where we were on the FTX train, and ultimately ended up with a nice big egg on our face for it.
But we, at some point, included in, like, mid 2020 or so, maybe mid 2020, that, like,
we now believe FTX will systematically compound that are faster rate than Binance.
A, that was just a very American thing to believe. But B, it was just like, we let our, like,
salmon slaunabias kind of cloud our judgment that, like, look, like, Binance still has all of its
advantages and, like, will continue to do well. So I think that's probably, like, a big error we
made. We shouldn't have just stayed along BNB. Because, like, nothing changed. In fact, even
still, even, like, a year or post DOJ, CZ settlement, I'm not really sure much has changed. I mean,
what's changed is, like, the organization has become probably more risk-reverse. And, like,
the decision-making, you know, there's a lot more viscosity in the decision-making. And so,
that's, like, probably a valid reason to, like, if you were an indefinite holder
over that five-year period that I just described, a probably the only thing that actually changed
in that four-year period was the DOJ settlement. And then you could, from there, infer, hey,
like, they just won't be able to move as fast anymore. But otherwise, everything else we got
spot-on, if you read the February 19 paper. I think, Kyle, what made you think it's time to
rotate out of this into something else? Was it the lack of traction? Was it the market environment?
What made you say it's time to work? Oh, we fully switched on to the Sam, the FTX train.
I mean, we were, like, more aggressive, out-executing, better products.
I think the fact that, you know, Sam was American, obviously, he just helped a lot. We just, like,
felt more comfortable being close with an American than with the Chinese team. So, I think all of our
natural biases just made it very easy for us to flip in a more binary fashion than we should have.
I think what was your learning from that switch? Like, you know, if, if I were to ask, what does
34-year-old Kyle know from that experience, you know, making the switch, going with Sam to that
experience, what would you distill that learning? Oh, I mean, Asia is just huge,
and, like, due to Binance, which was dominant in Asia, they controlled. I mean, even still to
this day with, like, launch pads and stuff, they control retail attention, like, in a very real way.
That's just indisable, and retail attention matters. So, there's a parallel world where you
would hold both Binance and FTX, assuming FTX didn't go up. Correct. I think there's an alternative
world in which we didn't go 100-0 to 0-100, but we went from 100-0 to, let's say, 50-50.
That was probably the more rational thing to do as a capital allocator.
Gotcha. I want to know a little bit about token extensions on Solana. I mean, you said that they
unlock other things that are, like, useful for institutions, right? So, have you had conversations
with institutions, what does that look like, and how are we getting there? Yes, and I don't know
how we get there. The biggest questions are not technical. The biggest questions are
demand-related. You know, it's not really clear. Yeah, BlackRock Biddle Fund makes a lot of sense,
because it's a way to pass yield on to people who want yield. Beyond that, there's not a lot of
obvious demand drivers for tokenized assets on chain, so that, in my mind, is the biggest question.
I think token extensions will be most useful in the context of stablecoin regulation,
because we know everyone wants stablecoins, and Mike is kicking into effect here in a few months,
and will ramp up over time. And I'm expecting legislation from US Congress at some point in 2025,
and I generally believe in that state of the world, token extensions will become substantially
more important. Can you unpack, like, for viewers' listeners, like, what is it exactly that they
enable? I mean, you can have a bunch of things, so you can have confidentiality, so amounts moving
around can be hidden, and you can provide audit logs back-door access if you sit on an optional
basis, if you so choose, letting that's huge, the ability for native revocation. So, like,
right now, Circle and Tether on Solana, they both have the ability to, like, freeze assets,
but those are both custom contracts that Circle and Tether wrote for USDC and USCT, respectively.
And token extensions, they built that into the L1, and it's a free and open API for everyone,
and so if we're going to have ons of other stablecoins, or BlackRock Biddle funds, or whatever funds,
you don't want all of those issuers to be manually rewriting the same contracts.
So, embedding that into the L1, enforcing that as a common standard for all of the RPC
providers and all of the wallets, I think, is a really big deal. Oh, interest-bearing assets,
again, this is awesome for, obviously, you're going to have to just bring stablecoins,
it's a no-brainer. So, really, like, that a lot. There's probably a couple of other ones,
I forget. I think there's, I think, a native freeze function and a few other things.
Oh, I think there's a function for, like, hey, if you, like, lost your private keys,
and let's say you own Apple shares or something, they can, like, burn your Apple and, like,
issue you new Apple. So, like, your new address, if you can prove, hey, it's me on the old, you know?
So, there's a bunch of features of that nature that I think are basically required for large-scale
institutional adoption. I understand that, like, literally none of what I just described
is in the BlackRock Biddle Fund that is live on the Ethereum mainnet today, but I expect that
to get to real scale, you will require all of those, because all of those things I just described
have analog functions in on-traffi rails, and I don't see how you're going to get to scale
without all of those functions. You've got any advice for Ethereum and L2s? I know that you were
talking about more type more than so on, but, like, what does that exactly mean? And, yeah,
no, I don't really have any advice for them. I'm kind of done. It's going to be built on Solana.
Yeah. Sit sites. Look, too many decisions have been made that I just think are, like, the wrong
decisions. All right. If we can talk a little bit about, like, founders that are building whatever
right now, and, like, what are the things that are big no-no for you when you are interacting
with founders? Like, okay, this is what I see, then, like, no, it's not going to work out for us.
Like, can we talk about that? I mean, I have a Twitter thread from, like, a few months back,
and I think probably answer this well. It's about, like, communication skills in the context of
fundraising, and, like, that's basically the only thing I look for. At this point, any kind of
interpret that statement is fairly broadly, you know, first communications, send me a deck,
or slideshow, or a written document, or it can be a YouTube link of you giving, right? I don't
really care what it is. Send me whatever it is that you believe is going to most effectively
communicate your core thing to me in a way that I'm going to understand it. Then, you know, obviously
we're on a phone call, and then, again, communication is kind of all that matters. You know, don't try
and, like, walk me through the deck. It's like, well, I already read the deck, so, like, I don't
know where I'm trying to walk me through it. And, you know, I want to be able to understand how you
are thinking and communicating answers to questions. That's very non-specific, but kind of how I think
about the world now. And the sector that you guys are most interested about. Dependent
stablecoins. And the reason being, they work. So, like, they're great use. Can we have the best
financial rails ever? Those are two great use cases of financial rails. Okay. So, like,
investing you are rewarded for being contrarian, right? So, like, does all of this come from that
point of view, or is that how you are in general? I work in train. I never really liked evolutionarily.
It was rational to not question the tribe too much. Because if you go back 2,000, 4,000, 5,000
years ago, or 40,000 years ago, you needed the tribe to survive. And if the tribe just disliked
you for any reason, like, you had a fucking problem. Like, that was basically imminent death.
And, like, you could try and voice your concern of the tribe. Probably only if you thought it would,
like, lead to everyone not dying in the fairly near future. But there's a very obvious reason why
you had to conform socially to survive. And I think that is generally all true in human psychology
across kind of all cultures today for very Darwinian evolutionary reasons. And I don't know if I was
born with less of that. Darwinistic, you know, tendencies or whatever. But I just kind of never
gave a shit what other people said. And I've always just kind of said, like, please re-articulate
to me from first principles what the reasoning is of the thing, whatever the thing may be, and
non-acute often time to time come to very meaningfully different conclusions than the rest of the
people. I think that's more bug in human history than the future. That led to death for most of
human history. Yeah, I mean, we wouldn't have many things if there were no
contrarians, at least peppered in history, right? Okay, this is the last one, I promise. What is the
most contrarian thing that you believe you've said and whatever? I mean, I don't want to know
the repercussions and whatever. But yeah. I mean, Bitcoin doesn't solve problems.
All right. Okay. All right. Sorry. Bitcoin and Ethereum both do not solve problems.
All right. Thanks. Thanks for the time. This was fun. Awesome. Thank you. Thanks guys. Bye.

