
Something I speak about frequently on invest like the best is the idea of life's work.
A more fun way to think about it is that I'm looking for maniacs on a mission.
This is the basis for our investment firm, Positive Sum, and it's the reason why I am
so enthusiastic about our presenting sponsor, Ramp.
Not only are the founders, Kareem and Eric, Life's Work Level founders, certainly maniacs
on a mission, they have created a product that is effectively an unlock for founders
and finance team to do more of their life's work by streamlining financial operations,
saving everyone their most precious resource time.
Ramp has built a command and control system for corporate cards and expense management.
You can issue cards, manage approvals, make vendor payments of all kinds, and even automate
closing your books all in one place.
Speaking from my own experience using Ramp for my business, the product is wildly intuitive,
simplistic, and makes life so much easier that you'll feel bad for any company who hasn't
yet made the switch.
The Ramp team is relentless, and the product continues to evolve to save you time that you
would never have dreamed of getting back.
To me, there is nothing more interesting than technologies that reduce friction for other
entrepreneurs to be able to build the thing that they want to.
So much attention has gone to cloud computing, APIs, and other ways of making life easy for
founders.
What Ramp has done and is doing is build yet another set of tools in this category.
To get started, go to ramp.com.
Cards issued by Celtic Bank and Sutton Bank, Member FDIC, Terms and Conditions apply.
Regeline gets me so excited because every investment professional knows this core challenge.
You love the core work of investing, but operational complexities eat up valuable time
and energy.
That's where Regeline comes in.
Regeline is an all-in-one operating system designed specifically for investment managers,
and their momentum has been incredible.
With about $350 billion now committed to the platform and a 60% increase in customers since
October, firms are flocking to Ridgeline for good reason.
They've been leading the investment management tech industry and AI for over a year with
100% of their users opting into their AI capabilities, putting them light years ahead
of other vendors thanks to their single source of data.
You don't have to put up with juggling multiple legacy systems and spending endless quarter
ends compiling reports.
Regeline has created a comprehensive cloud platform that handles everything in real time,
from trading and portfolio management to compliance and client reporting.
It's worth reaching out to Ridgeline to see what the experience can be like with a single
platform.
Visit ridgelineapps.com to schedule a demo.
As an investor, staying ahead of the game means having the right tools, and I want to
share one that's become indispensable in my team's own research, AlphaSense.
It's the market intelligence platform trusted by 75% of the world's top hedge funds and
85% of the S&P 100 to make smarter, faster investment decisions.
What sets AlphaSense apart is not just its AI-driven access to over 400 million premium
sources like company filings, broker research, news and trade journals, but also its unmatched
private market insights.
With the recent acquisition of Teagas, AlphaSense now holds the world's premier library of over
150,000 proprietary expert transcripts from 24,000 public and private companies.
Here's the kicker, 75% of all private market expert transcripts are on AlphaSense and 50%
of VC firms on the minus list conduct their expert calls through the platform.
That's the kind of insight that helps you uncover opportunities, navigate complexity,
and make high conviction decisions with speed and confidence.
Ready to see what they can do for your investment research?
Visit alphaSense.com/invest to get started.
Trust me, it's a tool you won't want to work without.
Hello and welcome everyone.
I'm Patrick Rachaughnessy and this is Invest Like the Best.
This show is an open-ended exploration of markets, ideas, stories, and strategies that
will help you better invest both your time and your money.
If you enjoy these conversations and want to go deeper, check out Colossus Review, our
quarterly publication with in-depth profiles of the people shaping business and investing.
You can find Colossus Review along with all of our podcasts at JoinColossus.com.
Patrick Rachaughnessy is the CEO of Positive Sum.
All opinions expressed by Patrick and Podcast guests are solely their own opinions and
do not reflect the opinion of Positive Sum.
This podcast is for informational purposes only and should not be relied upon as a basis
for investment decisions.
Clients of Positive Sum may maintain positions and the security is discussed in this podcast.
To learn more, visit psum.vc.
My guest today is Gilly Renant.
Gilly is the founder of CyberStarts, a VC firm focused on cybersecurity and the world's
first VC that is majorly backed by cyber entrepreneurs.
CyberStarts' $50 million first fund exploded to close to $2 billion in just three years.
He described cybersecurity today as the perfect storm where global conflicts and AI advancements
are creating unprecedented threats.
He talks about CyberStarts' sunrise methodology, which uniquely identifies customer pain points
before building solutions.
We discuss a focus on finding resilient talent, overcoming personal adversity, the evolution
of the cybersecurity landscape, and Google's recent acquisition of WIS, where CyberStarts
was one of the earliest investors.
Please enjoy my conversation with Gilly Renant.
You'll get to live in our world of the most interesting people and their stories and ideas.
You'll be judged on how well you help us spread what we do to reach the most people
we can in memorable and impactful ways.
To apply, go to joincalossus.com/producer.
Gilly, I've been so excited to do this with you, in part because in the 500 or so episodes
of this, I don't think I've ever talked about the thing you invest in primarily cybersecurity.
And because your personal investing story and life story is so damn interesting, we're
going to go all over the place.
Maybe you can just give us the very high-level state of the union in cybersecurity today.
Cybersecurity for over 35 years, not happy to admit it, but that's reality.
So I believe I do have a perspective on it.
We live in days where it's actually the perfect storm in cybersecurity for various reasons.
And when I look back at the days, I found that CyberStarts short of seven years in 2018,
it wasn't the case.
In 2018, cybersecurity was considered a boring portion of IT.
I think that what we see today is that there's a global powerhouse conflict that drives major
forces into cybersecurity.
It's the Ukrainian conflict, the Gazan conflict.
It's all over the world.
Offensive cybersecurity became a little weapon, or even strategic weapon, or state and powerhouses
involved in those conflicts.
So that's one element that's making the cybersecurity threat vector so real, so dangerous, so available.
And there's a constant drift from state-level cybersecurity weapons to criminal organizations
and then just creep kiddies.
So we live in a very dangerous world, way more dangerous than it was just a few years ago.
So that's why the second element is technology.
I think that we've seen the iPhone moment for AI in 2023, or maybe even 2024, AI is not
going to improve cybersecurity.
It's going to redefine it.
The same technology, the same LLMs, the same AI agents that you'd use to predict attacks
and prevent them would be used against you to deliver attacks at scale and level of sophistication
we haven't seen before.
And the methods that we developed maybe for the past 80 years starting in World War II
would be useless, because the speed, scale and sophistication of those attacks would
be something that we haven't seen before.
The world is a way more dangerous place today.
There's lots of police ahead of us.
I'm curious if you could analogize cybersecurity, offense and defense to simple military concepts
or something like this?
If I think about the evolution of kinetic warfare from muskets up through nuclear weapons
or something, is there some similar escalation of the tools being used by attackers and defenders
in cyber?
Have the targets changed over time?
The goal of the attackers changed over time?
If I were to think about the evolution of the battle, what are the key steps in that
evolution?
Think about modern warfare and the use of technology.
It started with better analysis, better decision making process.
Then it moves to human augmentation.
Think about the introduction of the first tanks in the first World War or the introduction
of the collection curve.
It made humans more lethal.
But with AI, there are additional steps.
It's the workflow automation.
And then the final step where AI takes control.
If you think about a modern warfare, you think about LLMs that quickly put together attack
plans that you didn't practice for, you didn't plan for, you don't have a B plan and a C plan
for, they're already using AI agents to take control and launch those attacks.
On the different side, that means that human augmentation would be an improvement for time
being, it might be enough, but it won't be a great solution for the long term.
For the long term, you'd have to use LLMs to predict attack vectors in the very same way
and give AI agents the control.
So you have a chance to respond to those attacks in a timely manner.
That's a future we are going to.
There's no question about it.
If you've been a fan of the Arnold Schavalds and the girl Terminator movies, that's been
a science fiction future, I think this is reality today.
What does that mean in terms of attack targets?
What are the offensive system, let's say a bad actor?
What are they trying to disable?
What are they trying to shut down?
What is the primary, most damaging strategy of the attacker today?
The best offensive tactics are always, how are I driven?
How do I apply the highest damage to you in the smallest effort lowest cost, fastest
way?
And what damage is always contextual a question depends who you are.
But we've seen examples of so many different ways to inflict pain on you, on the target.
And some of those attacks had very, very simple measures that you use, but the outcome was
unbelievable.
Could you give an example, if you like to take off accounting and put it on its knees, that
takes using conventional methods, huge amount of resources, times and coordinated efforts
by a lot of people.
If you do that through cybersecurity, you can use very simple ways, like taking down name
cereals for the power stations and you leave that country with that power for a few days.
It's not a highly sophisticated attack.
You don't have to have an army of people doing that and it can happen to any country any
day.
Now think about an AI agent that's able to produce thousands of scenarios like that and
execute all of them simultaneously.
That's the technology today.
This is not the future thing.
That's today.
What does that mean in literal terms?
So when you describe it that way, what comes to mind is an agent that can brute force create
ways in and just try them all, one lands and is successful in its attack.
Is that the right way to think about it?
Or is it, if that's a shotgun approach, is it more of a rightful approach enabled by
the agent in a way that wasn't possible five years ago?
The deduction model would always be as good as the data provided.
Take the analogy in the drugs development industry.
If you provide enough information about a certain disease, you'll be the LLM that can
take that patient data, that can take a lot of research and offer recipes for drugs that
can, for instance, heal diseases that are considered unhealable, let's say Alzheimer.
You can use the same LLM and ask for recipes for drugs that can kill people.
It's the same system, the same method.
It's the same software.
Now think about LLM that's fed on data around the software infrastructure of a bank and an
AI agent that you use to ask questions like, what are the potential breaches in my infrastructure
and how should I protect myself?
So very useful agent.
The same agent you can ask directly or trick to answer the question, how would an attacker
breach the defenses of that bank and take that bank offline?
So the same technologies that we use for the defense or the technology that would be used
on the offense, you've seen that even if you put a lot of guardrails into the model,
there are many ways to bypass those boundaries.
And that's when AI is in a walled garden.
Now you have open source models, and DeepSick is just one example of it, where AI is not
walled garden anymore, it's in the wild, when anyone can download the model and modify
the model.
If I think about the average lifespan of a cybersecurity company in this state of the
world today and let's say the next 20 years, there's that famous chart of like the average
lifespan of a company in the S&P 500 that's getting shorter and shorter and shorter.
Does that line look even crazier, steep for cybersecurity companies?
If the attack and defense factors are evolving so quickly, how can a company build enduring
value?
The answer is fairly straightforward.
AI would redefine cyber security.
It would replace the old ways that are the security solutions were architected.
The old systems of building wall-based systems and behavior-based systems, so the good guys
can fix misconfigurations or patch, baggy software systems, those days are gone.
And founders would have to create cybersecurity companies that are AI-fares and AI-native just
to have a chance to build lasting, important cybersecurity companies.
And that's the reason you see existing players, major players, like our own portfolio companies,
you see the level of effort that a major cybersecurity platform like Wies or Sayera or
Ireland, the level of effort they put in AI, understanding of learning AI and applying
AI into their platform.
That's not an additive capability to the product that's re-architecting the product to make
sure they are useful and effective when the attacker is not human and is not just human
augmented.
It's a machine that attacks you.
Can you tell the story of the first fund, which I think we'll probably go down as one
of the most spectacular early stage investment funds ever?
I would love you to share the numbers and the companies and just what happened, so sort
of thing of legend now, and then I want to build on that for how you built the business
afterwards.
You started in 2018, the first fund was small.
Tell the story of that first fund.
A lot of what happened in that fund relates to a lot of learnings and mistakes I've made
earlier in life.
Can you give those?
Oh, yeah.
Touch on some of the major learnings and mistakes and lessons, like the key ingredients that were
in place in 2018 from your experience that went into that first investment fund.
In 2018, I just exited one of the best VCs in the world, Sequoia Capital, amazing team,
spent a decade, so general partner, and beforehand, I've been a founder and CEO of two software
companies.
My conclusion back in 2018 was that the eventual model is completely broken.
It's broken in so many ways.
It's broken for investors and it's broken for the entrepreneurs.
People have spent endless amount of time asking about markets and products and technologies,
which founders at the very early stage, at the seed stage, clearly they don't have the
right answer, they don't have an idea, and whatever they tell the investor, anyway, would
change within a few weeks and then change again and change again and change again and
everyone are simply playing a game and dancing the dance, but they're just paying tax to
the sister.
It has no value, especially it has no value for the recipient of the solution because they
are not even involved in that dialogue, so when I borrowed the cyberstarts, I made one
very important commitment to completely avoid questioning the market, the technology, the
product, the competitive advantage and focus on one thing only, which is the person ahead
of me, focus on the talent.
The other thesis I had is hunting for adversities.
I'm looking for people who are not straight lines, who didn't have a perfect start for
their life, and managed to overcome it and become successful, although they didn't have
a perfect starting point for their life.
I had a very stumbled beginning, those cyberstarts started with a $50 million fund, super small.
I mean, the first one I was investing alone out of my office was a, still is today, a
shipping container I converted into an office, situated in my backyard, and I invested in
nine teams, and I was the lead investor in all those teams, made rebats, in people without
ideas.
I never thought that's pretty crazy, grown up writing large checks to people without
ideas.
That seems pretty odd.
And then three years later, in 2021, I realized that the portfolio of those nine teams is
valued over $25 billion, converted the $50 million into close to $2 billion, and, more
importantly, had a terrific set of companies.
Companies like Wiz, Adeccoone, the leader in cloud security, amazing team, we can talk
about them a lot.
Companies like Island Security that invented the enterprise browser space, and today is
a company that valued at around $3 billion.
Companies like Fireblocks, which is the largest blockchain custody service for enterprises,
which valued at $8 billion.
And as you know, in our business, if you invest early on in terrific companies, if you invest
early on DoorDash or Airbnb, you'll do disgustingly well, but a heat rate of four or five unicorn,
including one decacon and a few other companies that each of them got acquired for hundreds
of millions of dollars each.
That heat rate was a proof point that there's something right about the model, about the
thesis.
If you think about that outcome, and you decompose it into a couple of things, a bet on cybersecurity,
a bet on these nine people, a bet on the business models are the way that they approach
the market, and then some other catch-all bucket, what do you think were the most important
contributing factors to that first fund's success and the success that has continued
to happen since?
The heat rate is crazy, the number of huge outcomes is crazy, maybe the fourth bucket
is luck.
How would you break out the reasons for the success?
Luck is definitely important, but on top of luck, think Warren Buffett once said this
he walks harder than harder, he becomes luckier than luckier.
So definitely luck is important.
But I think the major factors here are a clear thesis, cyberstart is one simple thesis, one
sector and a commitment to deliver real value to the founders we partner with.
The clarity of that thesis and the fact we focus just on a single sector and we own it,
the founder selection criteria, and I would love to share some example later on, and the
fact that we made our decision-making process super simple by completely eliminating considerations
like market, technology, product, competition, business plan, pricing, whatever it is.
So we do not waste time on those things initially.
We spend our time making sure that we bet on the right actlets.
So luck, thesis, founder selection criteria, and then I would add two other factors.
One is the commitment we have to get to product market fit, as fast and as efficient as you
could, and that's the whole story of our Sunrise Day program.
The Silas program means that you do not develop technology or solutions in a vacuum, that
you build software, that you build software solutions that people really need and can
use on a daily basis.
And I would say the last element is that I'm surrounded by four amazing partners.
Each of them is adding tons of experience and value and knowledge and coming from different
backgrounds.
I think all those five elements like cyberstarts, what it is today, and just to continue the
story of cyberstarts, today with all the humble beginning we had, we manage more than $700
million under management across five funds, four seed funds, and one continuation fund.
The portfolio value today, cumulatively, is around $45 billion, which is 50% of the
worldwide market cap of private cybersecurity companies.
50%, that means that we seeded 50% of the worldwide market cap for private companies
inside of security, and that's under seven years.
Pretty good.
Yes.
We believe in cyber security, give us another seven years, and let's see where we can go
from here.
Each of the four active funds delivered over 100% IRR to investors.
So this is not just a case of one successful first fund and then leaving on the success
of that fund.
I think that we deliver value to founders and to limited partners, of course, all the
fund systematically.
Let's step through that process starting with founder traits, so you're betting on people,
many of them don't have an actual idea yet, and so you're really just incredibly focused
on the quality of the person.
What have you learned about what matters?
What are you looking for?
My personal experience as founder and builder taught me that startup is an insanely painful
journey.
It's super hard.
And like it or not, you're going to face a lot of challenges and that made me believe
I shouldn't simply look for the smartest person in the world, high IQ helps.
It's not a bad thing, but it's not the most important thing.
The most important thing in my view is the adversity and the ability to overcome it.
For me, this is the greatest signal, the best signal for a terrific founder.
Take for instance, fire blocks, founder and CEO, Michael Schodler.
Let's start with the company, so you understand the context, but fire blocks is the leading
trip to us at custody service for enterprise, its value that around $8 billion, thousands
of customers, including B&Y Mellon, B&B Paribah and ABN Ambo.
Fire blocks was my first investment in cyberstiles in 2018, June 2018.
We invested $3 million, and that was the seed for five blocks.
It's an $8 billion company today.
And Michael's personal story is that he integrated to Israel from the former Soviet Union as
a child.
He grew up without a father raised by a single mother, and he learned early on in his life
to navigate through uncertainty, moving to a new country, learning a new language, learning
how to deal with things and push through challenges.
I loved it.
I thought that's the most important thing.
Michael is a friend, he's a brilliant guy, but I'm sure there are people out there with
higher IQ, but that's not what's important.
When he started the company, just a few months after the first investment, we got into the
first crypto window.
Six out of the 10 first design partners of Michael went bankrupt.
So how do you deal with that?
That's a major blow to your plan.
Design partners are so important to build the solution.
And he had to simply rethink about the entire plan, about the focus and what the customers
are.
I think that his childhood experience, the roughness in him, the life experience that
you'd face challenges and you'll manage to overcome them, that's what kept him moving
forward and overcoming those challenges and building an amazing business.
How much of your evaluation of these people is effectively just saying, "Tell me your
life story," and that if they literally just answered that question in detail, it would
be all you need.
And if it's not all you need, what else do you need?
It's part of what I need.
It always goes there, but I learned that what's important in the story is not what.
It's the one.
It's not about what you did.
It's about why you did, why you choose to do that, why you pick job A and not job B,
why you pick that partnering life, not another partner, it's always about the why.
So it's not just about a unique, heartbreaking, life story.
It's spending time with an individual and understanding the way they make decisions,
the way they analyze the situation, what drives them, what really makes them tick.
And it's not so much about what they did and what accomplishments they managed to
achieve, et cetera.
It's always nice to know that, but that's not what important.
If you think about the next step, you select someone, they've got this personality type
that you love.
You then go on a hunt for the right problem, and maybe this is just the excuse to talk
about the sunrise methodology that you've established, walk us through that process.
I want to highlight how strange this is relative to, if you think about the outcome so far,
I'm not aware of another early stage investor that's this systematic with this high a hit
rate in such a narrow field.
And so I think spending extra time on the methodology from here, let's just assume you
can find great people, which I know is hard, but you've got a batch of great people.
What was the origins for behind sunrise?
What is it?
How did it come to be?
I think that in order to tell the full story of the sunrise, I have to go back to 1997
and my first startup experience.
By that time, I just finished a decade of service at the Israeli NSA in 8200, tell you
more about it in a few minutes.
And by the way, the 8200 formation years for myself and got to work with really a set
of people.
And in many ways, those were the years where the cybersecurity market in Israel was created.
I walked with folks like Shlomo Kramer, who is the founder of Checkpoint and Kaiton Networks
today, and Giv Schwed, the Checkpoint CEO and founder was just two years older than I
am.
And we heard many stories about him.
The officer that was sitting next to my office was Neil Tseuk from Palo Alto Networks.
So those were the formation days and I left the service and started a company and we raised
money from Sequoia Capital.
So that was the first time I encountered into Sequoia Capital, Pierre Lamont was on my boat.
We didn't have a clear idea of what we want to build.
One of the first technologies we thought to develop the company about was a challenge
response system that would distinguish between a human and a boat and a machine.
Years after, I realized that the name for that technology is captured.
So we had the luck to invent capture and build the first walking prototype of capture.
I had two 16 years old kids.
At that point, we were not well-funded enough.
I hired two 16 years kid later than, you know, a hard specimen who was the city of Chegg
and a Yaldnavon who later became the city of Kaiton students, two very successful companies
and two very smart individuals.
But their first real project in the commercial world was to build the first capture.
So we built the first capture.
And we tried as hard as we can and we couldn't find business model for the technology.
And that taught me a lesson.
And we had to pivot into something else and luckily, we pivoted into the web application
firewall space.
We got the first thing to build a web application firewall.
That was the path that company to affect the technology that later renamed into Sanctum
managed to build itself.
That company later emerged with a watch fire and got acquired by IBM.
But that lesson of capture that you can invent and build a very impactful technology.
Almost every person on the planet uses and still you are unable to find a business model
for the technology.
That lesson convinced me that I was completely wrong about the way I approach my startup,
starting with the technology and then search who has a problem that that technology solves.
The process should be reverse, completely reverse.
We should first look at what are the important pain points in the market, find the customers,
find who's willing to spend money on solving that problem and then go and build the solution
that me and more adults can use.
And that shift in order as simple as it sounds.
I think that what made cyber starts as successful as it is and that what helped all those amazing
founders really feel the full potential of their talents.
We continue to evolve the sunrise and methodology because it's not just around product market
field.
It's actually a program that takes an entrepreneur from day one from inception through the first
three or four years of running the business.
The early days of the sun rises all around focusing on finding the most important pain
point in the market.
And you do that by going out and speaking with a lot of organizations, making sure you
understand their priorities, what gives them the most and only there.
Can you describe that piece specifically in some detail?
The tactical method for who you're talking to, how many people you talk to, how often
you do.
Like the real details here.
I think it's such an interesting process.
So keep in mind that our companies be to be sus.
So all of them sell to large organizations.
So obviously, large organizations are the customers and they are who you like to ask
the questions.
And the best person to ask is the chief information security officer that obviously is the security
operation for that business.
The idea behind the sunrise process is that you're going to chase pain and identify pain.
That requires a lot of smartness because if you're going to ask, go out and ask the chief
information security officer.
This week, what's your biggest pain?
You'll get one answer.
You ask the same person, the same question in a week, you get a different answer.
And then another week, you'll get another answer and they are not playing games.
They're just being human.
There are other ways to identify pain.
For instance, one of my most favorite questions is who's the vendor you hate the most?
Because if you don't like a vendor, that's a big motivation for you to display start
a vendor.
Another important observation is what are cheap.
So don't look at what the customer says to what the customer does, which means if you
are running security for a large bank, you probably manage budgets of hundreds of millions
of dollars.
And if you claim that there is one thing that inflicting a lot of pain for you, you worry
about that.
You think that your bank is at risk and you haven't done anything about it?
Probably not as important as you claim.
So you probably has done something.
You're downloaded an open source package to try it out.
Who took consultants to develop a temporary solution.
You had real conversation with Palo Alto networks always to see if they can solve that issue
for you.
You've done something.
So we are asking them not about their opinions, but what they actually did to try and deal
with that pain point.
Eventually, we reverse the power balance in the conversation because we are not asking
for favors.
We are telling those organizations, hey, this is a new cyber starts team.
But new team would spend about $100 million in the next three years on engineering alone
to build one solution.
That's the average for a cyber starts company, $100 million R&D budget for three years.
What is the one thing that you care about that you'd like us to solve with our $100 million?
You don't need to spend anything with that.
We are giving you essentially $100 million of balance sheet to solve one pain point for
your organization.
And I found out that when you give people $100 million virtually, they listen and they
think.
You take those answers and you're not having one conversation or two conversations.
I think that to have a meaning full, a statistically meaningful outcome, you need to talk to dozens
of organizations.
You speak with dozens of organizations and you make a choice.
This is the one pain point I'm going to go after.
And then you do another round of conversations, assuming you go after that pain point and
ask them questions how a solution would look like because you really like the solution
to be loved by the users.
And only then, and sometimes it takes six months, only then you start to build software.
And if you think about the typical startup, when they get money from VCs, they start to
get pressure to build software and push forward and hire people.
And my approach is almost the opposite.
Sit tight.
Don't get too excited.
This is your last chance to pick the right problem to go after.
So let's make sure we pick right.
The outcome is that they build software that solves a major pain point.
It's verified with dozens of real customers.
And they've built a solution that people would love because they talked to those people
before they started to build code.
Now, it doesn't work every team, but I think I've demonstrated the success rate is quite
hard.
If I back up now and think about the process so far, it's the identification of these
people that have this super resilience history and gene.
It's the application of the sunrise program to start identifying and then ultimately pick
a problem that's super valuable using these unique set of questions.
What's the next phase?
Are these things built in a distinctive way relative to the normal startup that you've
observed before?
Or is it at that point a standard software building exercise?
It's a standard software building exercise, but perfectly done because you start from
the end and walk backwards.
It starts with the end in terms of value, what value the customer would like to produce
with that piece of software.
The science process doesn't end at six months.
It's a full simulation of everything you're going to face in the next three or four years
as a founder, as a company.
And how do you deal with it?
And how do you architect your company in the best way to run as fast as visible in the
first three or four years?
So if you demo the product and then they didn't take you for product evaluation, why is that?
If I tell you, the man from the future tells you that they evaluated the product and didn't
buy it.
Why is that?
We use a lot of simulations that assume failure and forces the founders to really analyze
this situation, assuming a failure and build their company to deal with it.
So it's not just about product, it's about go-to-marketing, it's about pricing, it's
about channel strategy, it's about maybe location of headquarters.
So many, many elements that are being evaluated, examined during the time of the sunrise.
One of the things that is incredibly interesting to me is how you must drive low cost of capital
for these companies because of your involvement.
I would imagine you've got all sorts of other investors with the pockets that desperately
would love to sort of blindly fund companies that are partnered with you at seed at the
Series A or the Series B or beyond.
How do you help the companies manage their future financing?
And how do you think about how aggressive to be on valuation and how much capital you
raise and dilution, this isn't really an interesting part of what you've built, such
a high hit rate.
We think it's cyberstarts of coin vessels as partners.
I don't take them lightly and we are fortunate to have amazing coin vessels that have backed
repeatedly our portfolio companies and we have tons of respect to their contribution and
their support of the companies because cyberstarts can be as great as we like but there are other
smart, capable, knowledgeable people in the world and we're happy to get their help.
So we are definitely, in the early days, we are highly involved in fundraising and helping
our companies to finance their growth.
My approach is that it is expensive to build important companies.
Important companies are typically not cheap.
When I hear founders getting advice like keep down valuations, make sure you don't raise
too much money.
My approach is your first priority as a CEO is to have enough money that you can build
the right product, hire the right sales teams.
That's expensive.
Another way is enough money, the valuation should be high as well because no founder
would sell 50% of their company in series A, not in series B, so I'm all for raising
a lot of money.
Assuming you've built the right product and you have the right team so you can scale and
take on the opportunity.
How do you think about pricing at seed for yourself?
What's the right way to think about this?
How much variance is there between the valuation at which you've tended to enter companies?
Has that changed a lot since 2018?
It almost didn't change in seven years.
We typically see two types of deals, so if you like the pricing menu of two items, we
see one market for first time entrepreneurs, people who, that company is the first experience
as founders and executives, and then there is a different price, a different market for
repeated entrepreneurs.
What are those prices roughly?
For first time professionals, we've seen seed deals anywhere between the 15 to 20 million
dollars post-money and for repeated entrepreneurs, we see a bold range starting from the $40,
$50 million range and sometimes it's going up quite crazy.
You don't mind paying it because of the extra information you have about the founder on
a repeat basis?
I do mind, because I've passed on deals where the price went crazy enough and that's what
I'm telling entrepreneurs that their job is to make sure that they are the most important
company in each of their investors' portfolio because at the end of the day, they fight
for attention and bandwidth and access and when the investor ownership goes down significantly,
it's hard to become the most important company in the portfolio when an investor owns 5%
of their cup table.
High prices, in my view, are double-edged swords for entrepreneurs at the early stage.
How many other places do you think, in addition to cyber, this method could be applied successfully
or is there something still in 2025 really distinctive about cyber versus other spaces
that make it by far the most fertile ground for applying something like sunrise?
I believe that in any field where there's relatively uniformity of buyers, that's applicable.
I would assume it's applicable for fintech, it's applicable for gaming, maybe even applicable
for medical devices.
But you need a fairly active ecosystem, not just from end-user's perspective, but also
from an M&A perspective, that's important as well because not all your companies would
go public.
In the past 12 months, we've sold 5 portfolio companies at a cumulative value of $2.5 billion.
That's important as well.
How would you rate today's environment for prospective returns, your returns have been
crazy high?
Do you think the next five years have the chance for similar returns or have prices made earning
those kinds of returns and the market itself much harder?
Achieving amazingly returns has always been super-out, it would continue to be-out, but
I believe that everything said earlier about the perfect storm in cybersecurity, the introduction
of AI and the way it's going to redefine cybersecurity, I believe that the opportunity
is there.
Obviously, the quality of the talent we see is always getting better and that what keeps
me so optimistic just to see the endless stream of smart, eager, hard-working young individuals
who are determined to build the next solutions.
Speaking of those individuals, we talked a little bit earlier, I'm just so fascinated
by the questions that you ask as you're identifying these people and I'm thinking to your time
with Mike and Doggett Sequoia, again, famous for asking people about their early lives
and whole-life stories.
Are there any other favorite questions that you have to ask people to understand them as
deeply as possible that we haven't talked about?
I always speak with founders about their superpowers.
What do they perceive as their superpower?
What makes them confident that they can win the game?
You speak with a founder, speak with an individual, follow a good hour, you've got a fairly good
perspective of what you think is their superpower and it's fascinating to listen to the way
they perceive themselves.
And I found out that some of the best founders are completely unaware to their superpowers.
They are so natural in that, they don't mean to use them, they're just so great at that.
And a superpower can be anything, a superpower can be simply the type of person that people
are dying to be their friend.
You don't notice that, you think that that's a gift everyone has, you don't realize that
this is your gift and that what paved you the way to be successful.
In many cases, the superpower they claim they have is not necessarily the real superpower
they have, but it shows you the way they view their weaknesses because the superpower
they are aware of, they pay attention to, they have to develop it and they have to develop
it in compensation for something else.
So that tells you a lot about the person ahead of you.
What if you had to answer that question for yourself?
First of all, congratulations, you're a fast learner, that's great.
Two things, but I would say, let's take self-confidence, it's one answer I would give,
I'm sure this is something I've developed over the time, I wasn't natural in that.
It took time and it was as compensation to a very insecure child that grew up in a small
town in Israel that didn't feel really appreciated for his talents and didn't feel that he's
part of something bigger.
And I think only when I was 13 for my bar meets by God, a Commodore 64 computer that opened
up a whole new world for me.
I started to go to know people with the same mindset, speaking about the 80s, I hop on
a bus and went to computer gigs gatherings in Tel Aviv when I was 14 or 15.
And I think that only when I joined the Israeli NSA when I was 18, I really found out that
I'm part of something bigger, I felt that I belong to that group of people.
So it took time to develop that self-confidence.
On the beforehand, there was always a gap between the way I felt about myself and the
type of feedback I got from the people around me.
What do you think the hidden superpower is?
That's your true number one, but you're not as consciously aware of.
My endless hunger, I'm never happy, I'm never satisfied with whatever I achieve, I always
look at the next step.
I finish climbing on one pick of the mountain, I immediately look beyond that mountain and
look for the next pick to climb.
It's very daunting because I tell myself it would be nicer if I could just take a rest
and enjoy the view from the pick of the mountain I just climbed and I find very little satisfaction
in that.
Where do you find satisfaction?
Making impact on people that are really care about.
The founders I partner with are people that are really care about.
My partners, it's cyber-stiles.
The old Emily, Ila, Adam are people that I care about.
I like to leverage the past 35 years of being in the different sides of cybersecurity, going
through so many different experiences to really make impact on their life.
We have the opportunity, given the timing here, to talk about an incredible investment with
that, of course, is the item of the news of the last, I don't know, year in the venture
world, an incredible outcome in the acquisition from Google.
We won't talk so much about the outcome as the process and your experience and story
of working with the company.
We've talked a lot in our interview about why you do what you do, the process by which
you found founders, what you look for in them, the process to find product, market fit,
the sunrise methodology, et cetera.
Here we have the ultimate case study and why these ideas are powerful and combination.
I would love to just hear the story from your perspective.
You're right.
We're in many ways is the front window type of use case for the cyber-stiles recipe for
building an important company.
And for me, the story really calls many of the key ingredients for building an important
cybersecurity company.
I'll talk about a few elements.
I hope that I'll do that in the right order, but most importantly, I think it's picking
a really important pain point and getting to perfect product market fit.
If you look at whiz, the forefounders, Assaf, Ami Roy, Non, I think that the whiz journey
started eight years before founding whiz in 2012.
There was just a bunch of young guys, 27, 28 years old, straight out of the army.
Assaf had spent maybe a year with McKinsey, but really inexperienced team and they started
Adelon, a cloud security company.
And that journey was quite short.
In three years, they sold the business to Microsoft, joined Microsoft in 2015 and spent
five years at Microsoft building the Microsoft cloud security business, bought it to a decent
size of a billion dollars in revenue.
And then they left Microsoft in 2020.
And at that point in time, they were the most experienced team in my view worldwide in running
a cloud security business.
And they started a company which wasn't called whiz, it was called beyond networks.
And they had a very, very different idea.
They thought to go and secure satellite offices with secure one access, et cetera, you know,
some sort of a business that never took off and beyond networks.
We looked at the customer feedback and it was an important problem for customers, but
it didn't have a very important ingredient, which is it was important.
It wasn't urgent.
And at the early stage, as much as you like to go after large market size and important
pain point, the most important thing in my mind is to go after an urgent pain point that
generates sense of urgency.
And the sense of urgency is almost everything you need as a small venture.
Because that means that things would happen fast for you.
You get to more customer engagement.
You learn faster, you improve faster, you'll be able to build your revenue faster.
And we didn't have that with the secure one access idea.
And the wisdom was smart enough to really pivot into a space in you very well, which
is cloud security and renay the company whiz.
And we ran a sunrise program, which is all focused on getting feedback, making sure we
understand the pain point building the right solution that mere mortals can use.
And three months later, they had a product which would generate a sense of urgency.
They spoke with customers and those potential customer prospects wanted to bring them in.
And then I learned a very important lesson about the four customer profiles.
When you sell a product, you are going to face four personas.
The person that has the pain point that has the problem, the person who has the budget
to pay for solution to solve that, the person that has the authority to decide on the product
on solution and the fourth person is the person that would actually use the product.
Now as a starter, if those four personas map into a single person in real life, that's
a mega heat.
And that was the case of whiz.
If those four personas are mapped into four real people, there's one real person that
has the problem, one real person that has the budget, one real person that has the authority
and a fourth person that actually use the product, don't do that.
Go and pivot.
And if you map into two people, that would be a very nice company.
If you're mapped to three people, that's a borderline.
You may or may not like to pursue that.
So for whiz, it was a single person.
It was the CISO.
The CISO has the problem.
The CISO, the Chief Information Security Officer, had the authority to decide on a cloud security
solution.
They obviously had the budget.
And most importantly, they had the AWS credentials that enabled them to really deploy the product.
So whiz was able to do something very unique, just because all those four personas mapped
into one real life person and whiz beat a really cool technology, they managed to build
a product that during the first call with a prospect, they could ask for the AWS credentials
and within the call show them real value for their own organization, not in a demo environment.
And that really accelerated things for whiz and in three months, we faced one major dilemma.
We could go for a low entry point price product to get a lot of logos and build whiz from
the ground up bottom up, or what people in Silicon Valley called PLG, or go after very
large deals, enterprise deals to begin with and grow the ARR top line.
Unlike the common wisdom within Silicon Valley, we decided to go for the large deals, scrap
PLG and go for real enterprise deals to begin with.
We thought that by growing our top line ARR, we would be better off.
We would have real commitment by highly sophisticated customers.
We would attract attention from outside investors.
We would attract attention from go to market talent.
And that would enable us to build a significant business.
And while we spent the first 12 month building a product, the next four quarters were quite
unusual.
We closed a million dollar in ARR in the first quarter of selling the software, two million
dollars, I think eight million dollars, and then twenty five million dollars in the fourth
quarter.
Wow.
It was an incredible company from the moment we actually launched our go to market for
those three reasons, focus on the urgent, not important, build a product that has a terrific
product market fit for one person, one real person that owns the budget, the authority
and the ability to use the product, and we went and sold that to large organizations
at a high price point.
Can you say a little bit about how you won such early involvement with a team that was
obviously so strong, the ongoing lesson from the stories that have come out since the acquisition
news is some of the very high multiples, nominal revenue multiples that were paid by
subsequent round investors who nonetheless earned an incredible return, even though they
paid high multiples.
And I'm curious what you learned from watching that dynamic and fold, having been the earliest
investor in the business.
That actually was an old lesson.
I learned that Sequoia many years ago, that the expensive deals, the pricey companies are
pricier from day one, they're always expensive, they're expensive at the seed round, they're
expensive at least a round, they're expensive at the B round, the worst reason for a venture
capitalist to pass on an opportunity is for price, because it's part of those companies
DNA, pick a company, all of those companies were expensive, Airbnb was expensive, Instagram
was expensive.
So if you're going to pass on an opportunity just because of price, you're going to pass
on all the good companies.
Yes, we was super expensive to begin with and attracted a lot of attention and became
the fastest unicorn, the fastest company to go to 100 million dollars, the fastest company
to get to 500 million dollars.
And this year when we get to a billion dollar area, it's probably going to be the fastest
SaaS company to get to a billion dollar area, but that's part of the DNA, it's a fast company.
Watching that just convinced me that as an investor, a high price company is actually
a good thing, not a bad thing, if justified.
Is there any other novel lesson?
I love the three points that drove the success that you outlined, and I love the idea that
the high price thing is an old lesson.
Are there any other new lessons that Wiz taught you that are unique to your experience
with that specific company?
The productivity at Wiz, if you look, was second to none.
And when I looked at the number of engineers relative to the number of products and the
number of capabilities we deliver annually, it was amazing.
And when I look at the way Wiz stores engineers, there's always a debate, how do you pick the
best engineers, and who are the best engineers for your business?
And I discussed that with Roy resnick, the VP of Avondio for use, one of the co-founders,
one of the four co-founders.
And here there's a super special way to sell engineers.
He would not just sell smart engineers who has been in good companies beforehand, terrific
education, et cetera.
He would sell people that their hobby is writing code.
He would sell people that on a weekend, assuming they're married and have kids, if they have
a couple of hours of quite time, they would not go reading or watching a Netflix series
or listen to music, they would go and write code.
Those are the people you like to hire.
When you have a hundred of these guys, it's like having three or four hundred terrific
engineers.
Because you know the rule that a great software developer is probably ten times better than
a good software developer.
But having great software developers, that their hobby, their sole hobby is writing code,
that's a false multiplier.
And I think we realized that and capitalized on that.
Is the outcome satisfying?
I think I told you all about the interview that I've never satisfied.
Just testing it.
That's the reason I know that you're going to laugh and say, "Okay, I really feel that."
But, okay, it's hard to live like twice.
I wish I could.
I would A/B test that decision again.
But I think it's setting the bar super high to get from zero to thirty two billion dollar
valuation within five years.
I didn't check history books, but I guess that's pretty good.
But I can think about a few other companies that has the potential, at least, to break
that record.
I dare to predict, again, assuming this transaction go through and get approved, et cetera, that's
the real final outcome, my guess that within ten years, somebody would break that record.
Do you think it can be broken in cybersecurity specifically?
Yes.
Why?
Why do you think that's possible?
Just because it's changing and so big?
Because you have all the ingredients.
You've got the market size, you've got the evolving pain point, past moving, landscape,
and a lot of talent.
A lot of experience talent, not just on the engineering side, but also on a business side.
And I think that you have some experienced investors as well.
So I think that you've got the ingredients.
Now, luck should be in the mix as well.
And therefore, I think that within the next decade, we would see that record getting achieved
and broken by a new player.
I think it's very, very feasible.
If it happens, I wouldn't be surprised if you're involved from the very earliest stages.
And if the Sunrise Methodology and your approach works again, you'll appreciate that.
If you think about the stories of resilience that you look for in your founders, it's
a nice thing to say.
Can you tell me the story of the hardest episode of resilience that you've had to personally
go through?
Yeah.
Before starting Cyberstars, I lost my daughter, my 19-year-old daughter in a terrible tragedy.
And the world just closed for me.
And it was very easy to stop everything and focus on the endless pain I felt.
I managed to find the power and strength to keep on going, build Cyberstars, and focus
on building that organization and legacy.
And that really helped me to continue to live with the pain, but continue to live.
How is that possible?
Everyone was saying myself included with children.
Notice that's the single worst thing one could imagine.
How is it possible to get beyond something like that?
I think it's very, very difficult to give advice to hopefully nobody has to deal with
that tragedy.
It's really the most painful thing that you can go through.
For myself, I did that instinctively.
I didn't spend time to think about it.
I didn't make a decision.
I just did it in a way I managed to live with terrible emotions.
But previously, I wouldn't imagine I can contain them and live with them.
And over the time, I taught myself to live with the pain, not fight the pain, just wait
for the pain to ease.
And I think that working with younger people on innovation, on solving real world problems,
on building solutions, that what kept me younger and healthier.
I love the message of focusing on young people and building things for others.
It seems like your orientation and your satisfaction and your strategy and your search and your
work is very other oriented.
Anything you would say to other investors out there that hear that part of your story
and that's the piece that appeals to them most, helping other people and what they build
and how they do their work.
I really think that there's many ways to become terrific investor.
I don't think there's one canonical way together.
By the way, it's not enough just to be first.
You also need to be right.
That's the difference between an investor and a terrific investor being right.
But again, there are many ways to help, but there's also more than one way to heaven.
My accommodation is to really find your passion and do something that's not just coffee generation
or when you walk.
Do something that's a life project for you.
When I look at cybersecurity, cybersecurity is not an investment area.
It's not an area of interest for me.
It's a life project.
It's really important for me.
And I think that's the best thing you can feel about anything you do.
That it's super, super important for you.
You really care about it.
If you think about the future of cyber, what challenges, evolutions, things that might
happen excite you most or worries you most, I guess, both?
It's not the way I think about cybersecurity future.
I don't keep a category of domains, et cetera.
It's a common misconception to think about cybersecurity as a market.
Send alone.
There's no cybersecurity market.
Cyber security is always a derivative of something else, a new technology or a new business.
So if cloud is new, you need cloud security and if autonomous vehicles are new, you need
autonomous vehicle security, take, for instance, a conversation about AI, AI for sure redefines
cyber security.
It already does it, but you couldn't predict it.
So an investor that focuses on cyber security, early stage investment, I'm not concerned
about figuring out the best, the most important things or opportunities or domain cyber security.
I'm confident they will introduce themselves.
The same as cloud introduced itself, IoT security introduced itself, mobile security introduced
itself, AI security introduced itself, I'm focused on picking the right talent, picking
the right outlets, partnering with them and making sure that you use the right system,
see our conversation around sunrise to really build solutions that real customers, real
users would love.
If we do that, everything else would fix itself.
It's totally remarkable what you built in a short period of time.
I'm sure the cyber start story is in its infancy and that we'll be able to do this in five
years and a whole new set of challenges.
We'll have arisen, like you said, probably unpredictable.
Thank you for doing this with me.
When I do these, I always ask the same traditional closing question.
What is the kindest thing that anyone's ever done for you?
The kindest thing that someone has done for me is a couple of years ago, my son told me
that he spent a lot of time thinking about it and he realized that I'm his best friend.
For me, that was probably the best thing anyone could tell you.
It's not just about being a dad.
It's the ability to create this level of trust and emotional connection that makes someone
feel that your is best friend and when it comes from your son, that's the kindest thing
you can hear from anyone.
Close to 500 times.
I've never heard that answer.
These answers tend to cluster in a couple of key themes, variants of key themes three
or four.
I've never heard that one.
With a son of my own, it hits you right in the face.
All that must have gone into that thing he told you, really a beautiful, amazing place
to close.
That's a true time.
Thank you.
[music]


