
Welcome to this classic episode.
Classics are my favorite episodes from the past 10 years published once a month.
These are N of 1 conversations with N of 1 people.
This is a rare opportunity to hear from one of the best investors of the past decade,
Josh Kushner.
As a side note, Josh is one of the very best people that I've met in this journey over
the last 10 years.
I hope you enjoy it.
Here's a puzzle.
What do open AI, cursor, perplexity, vercel, plaid, and hundreds of other winning companies
all have in common?
The answer is that they're powered by today's sponsor, WorkOS.
If you're building software for enterprises, you've probably felt the pain of integrating
SSO, SCIM, RBAC, audit logs, and other features required by big customers.
WorkOS turns those deal blockers into drop-in APIs with a modern developer platform built
specifically for B2B SaaS.
Whether you're a seed stage startup trying to land your first enterprise customer, or
a unicorn expanding globally, WorkOS is the fastest path to becoming enterprise-ready
and on-lock growth.
It's essentially striped for enterprise features.
Visit WorkOS.com to get started or just hit up their Slack support.
Yes, they have real engineers in there who will answer your questions fast.
WorkOS allows you to build like the best with delightful APIs, comprehensive docs, and
smooth developer experience.
Go to WorkOS.com to make your app enterprise-ready today.
New SEC Update 31 CFR hits investment firms in under a year, and managers are getting
ready for it now.
If you think basic OFAC screening is enough, think again.
You'll need continuous monitoring of your investors and all their beneficial owners
across multiple watchlists, plus a comprehensive anti-money laundering program.
Pass-through has already processed 50,000 LPs and built the complete solution.
They handle everything from being your AML officer to monitoring suspicious transfers
and even handling your annual audit and training requirements.
All firms filing SEC Form ADVs, including those with VC Exemptions, need to be 31 CFR
compliant beginning January 1, 2026.
Don't risk SEC deficiency letters, fines, or regulatory enforcement.
Visit Pass-through.com to get compliant now.
Hello and welcome everyone.
I'm Patrick O'Shaughnessy and this is Invest Like The Best.
This show is an open-ended exploration of markets, ideas, stories, and strategies that
will help you better invest both your time and your money.
If you enjoy these conversations and want to go deeper, check out Colossus Review, our
quarterly publication with in-depth profiles of the people shaping business and investing.
You can find Colossus Review along with all of our podcasts at JoinColossus.com.
Patrick O'Shaughnessy is the CEO of Positive Sum.
All opinions expressed by Patrick and Podcast guests are solely their own opinions and
do not reflect the opinion of Positive Sum.
This podcast is for informational purposes only and should not be relied upon as a basis
for investment decisions.
Clients of Positive Sum may maintain positions and the security is discussed in this podcast.
To learn more, visit psum.vc.
My guest today is Josh Kushner, founder and managing partner of Venture Firm Thrive Capital.
Josh started Thrive in 2010 and launched its first institutional fund in 2011.
That first institutional fund was $40 million and in it Thrive Led Warby Parker Series A
invested in Instagram and incubated the business with Josh co-founded called Oscar.
Thrive has gone from strength to strength sense and now manages $15 billion with a small
team of nine investors.
Their portfolio is stage agnostic and their track record includes many of the best known
businesses from the past decade, including Spotify, Unity, Stripe and Twitch, among many
more.
Josh rarely speaks in public about the firm and their philosophy, so it was a blast to
do this with him.
Please enjoy my conversation with Josh Kushner.
Things about that, everything else we'll talk about, I think is somewhat downstream of some
very deliberate choices you've made, your style, your personal style.
I've really enjoyed getting to understand and so I'm just curious in that note, what were
you saying to yourself?
Well, I think as a firm, we've always taken a very different approach with regards to
how we present ourselves to the world and I think that has come from a couple of different
frameworks.
The first is, and most important, our belief that the founders are heroes and the idea
of taking credit for their success is not something that we've ever wanted to do.
I think personally, the construct of seeking validation from others is not something that
we've ever believed would lead to us getting to the right conclusions on things that we
do.
We've always been different in that we don't apply to the Midas list or things like that,
just because even internally, forget about how we would want to be perceived externally.
Every single win that we have is the entire firm's win and every single loss that we have
is the entire firm's loss.
I know you've had Shane Batie on the show before and we all quote the no-stat all-star
often.
That's an incredible piece.
Yeah, there's a great story that we remind the entire organization about often, which
is I led investment in Slack, I sourced the deal, I underwrote the deal, I joined the board,
I was the person who ultimately decided when we should exit the company, but as we were
talking about it as a team, I was extremely nervous about the price that we were about
to pay.
And my partner Kareem, who was not involved in the underwriting process, who had never
met Stewart, who did not join the board, was the one who actually convinced me that we
should do the deal.
So who gets credit?
Is it me?
Is it him?
No, it's the team.
I think if you have that mindset, the idea of being out there in the ways in which others
are in our industry is something that we've always gravitated away from.
Why do this?
I think in many respects, there are negative aspects of the fact that we're not out there
and that some people don't really know what we do.
Some people think that we just incubate companies.
Some people think that we just make early stage investments.
Some people think that we only make later stage investments.
So a mentor of mine said to me recently, "If you don't tell your story, someone else
will tell it for you."
I feel grateful to have the opportunity to do it with you, but having the ability to
articulate to the world what we do and how we do it and why we do it is something that
I'm excited to do.
One of the things that comes up if you ask around about you and thrive is, if I say like,
"What questions should I ask Josh?"
Some people will say, "Talk about the taste on the consumer side that developed early,"
because for the most part, thrive invested in the consumer space, which on average didn't
do that great, but leading companies did very, very well and thrive was often invested in
those things.
How do you think about the development of taste?
Taste is something that you should always question at the same time.
Understanding quality and understanding taste and having a deep appreciation for that is
something that is fundamentally important, but that doesn't mean that you're always
going to get it right.
Good design does have some basic principles.
It's the people who can, I would say, understand how that design applies to lots of different
industries and sectors and have the capacity to kind of think outside of the box that
are ultimately able to thread those common principles through lots of different things.
The people that I respect the most that have the most extraordinary taste, whether it be
Bob Iyer's ability to understand the difference between what movie's going to work and what
movie's not going to work and appreciating creatives, or you and I've talked a lot about
Rick Rubin, why he's able to understand why one musician is better than another is something
that is not teachable, but I think always questioning yourself is something that we
constantly do.
You and I think are both in love.
You turned me on to this chapter in his book called Rules.
Can you tell me why you love that chapter so much, what it says and why you love it
so much?
Highly recommend people go listen to it.
Rick Rubin has this incredible line in his book, which is pay attention to what you notice,
but when no one else sees.
Rules are limitations.
Rules artists learn are assumptions.
They're not absolutes and I actually think there's this orientation that rules are things
that we learn as adults and in reality, when you're younger, you're completely unconstrained
with regards to ways in which you see the world and actually think naivety is such a
powerful thing.
A lot of people in our industry talk about pattern recognition as a positive attribute.
We actually talk about pattern recognition as a negative attribute.
It actually prevents you from seeing the world differently.
It prevents you from seeing what the world can be and actually think rules are things
that can be deeply constraining and actually I think in many respects, the ways in which
we think about the firm have always pushed the boundaries in terms of what conventional
wisdom is for the industry.
There have been so many times that we've been told this is not what a venture capital
firm is meant to do.
Smile every time.
Yeah, our orientation is well, if we actually think in first principles around what we're
trying to create, we're always going to ask why.
Why is that the answer?
Why can't we do this?
I actually think as a result of our orientations around constantly questioning the norms we've
created something that I think has in many respects pushed the boundaries of what we
can do and our ambition is to continue to think outside the box in the ways in which
we can continue to build a firm.
First time we met you told me this amazing line, I think one of your parents told you
about tall buildings because you should have a line.
Yeah, the line is lightning strikes a tall building and I've always tried to live my
life with having my actions speak louder than my words and keep to myself.
In addition to that, I just think it's a lot more fun to listen than it is to talk.
When I was in Omaha for the Berkshire Hathaway this meeting, I had the opportunity to spend
time with Charlie Munger and he had this great line to me, which really has stuck with me
and resonated with me, which was what's the point in telling everyone all that you know,
it's a lot more fun to learn about things that you don't know.
So that's the framework that I have a lot more listening than talking.
I promise this is my last preliminary philosophy question, but I think you tweet about once
a year, so it's consistent with what you've said so far.
The most recent precious use of one of your annual slots was to share a story from CS Lewis
called Inner Ring, which I'm familiar with and love and I think it's just a fantastic
little, I don't know what to call it, essay story, something.
Why share that?
What does that mean to you?
What's the gist of that and why has impacted the way you think about the world?
Yeah.
So the Inner Ring is an essay written by CS Lewis.
The summarized version is there are rings of people and when you're on the outside of
these rings, you'd want to be on the inside.
It's this desire to feel included.
It's this desire to be a part of something.
And those that actually chase these rings, they do whatever they can to get inside.
And once they're inside, they realize that it's not all that they thought it was meant
to be.
So then they start chasing for the next ring and the next ring and the next ring.
And the essay concludes that effectively, the goal to life should be to not try to chase
anything, but rather focus on your craft, focus on the people that you love the most.
And unbeknownst to you, you will appear as if you're safe and sound within a ring to
the outside world, but you will have absolutely no idea.
And I think for me, I have that framed in my office actually.
I try to live my life every day by focusing on the things that I'm passionate about, my
family, people that I love, my closest friends, and just trying to get better at the things
that I do every day and try to not get distracted about the outside world.
What have you learned about the different sources of drive and motivation, especially
in the context of founders, you call them heroes, earlier of the stories of their businesses,
and you wanting to not get in the way of that story and really be supporting quietly,
which is a very nice notion.
It seems like a critical thing like psychology and motivation to understand when partnering
with these people, especially if it's a very early young business.
And you just talked about inner rings as maybe a pernicious form of motivation of trying
to get something but it being the wrong direction to be pointing.
What have you learned about good, bad, healthy, unhealthy motivators and what drive people
to do exceptional things?
Yeah, one of the values of Thrive is to focus on the inputs, not the outputs.
I think if you're chasing success, then you're unlikely to realize it.
And if you are focused on a problem that needs to be solved, you will likely achieve success.
So I think the people that we view as the most driven are the ones that are entirely
focused on improving themselves constantly.
It's this level of self-motivation and self-awareness that is entirely a competition between them
and themselves.
And I think that is the thing that I've seen from the best founders that I've ever worked
with.
Those that are motivated by how the world will ultimately perceive them will likely make
bad decisions.
Those that are motivated by a mission or a cause or the ambition to solve a problem
are the ones that will ultimately achieve it.
In many respects, having the firm base in New York City has been very much driven by
the idea of us, I would say, being out of an echo chamber or an ecosystem so that we
can actually have true independent thought.
And I think these are human emotions that you feel when you're in the middle of something.
When I was in college, I had the opportunity to go to a Knicks game with someone who worked
in finance in New York City, and he took me courtside, seats were amazing.
I was in heaven, and he looked over five seats to his right and he said, "My seats are good
but this guy seats are better."
And that was...
In her rings.
That was a really important moment for me because it made me realize that the way to
ultimately do my job really well is to create the right boundaries for me to actually be
on the outside and have true independent thought.
A large portion of our investments are out west there every month, but I think in some
respects, the idea of not being there every day has enabled me to focus on just be a
lot more clear in my thinking.
Talk about the relationship between starting and investing in companies for Thrive, which
as I understand it, is deep in the DNA.
We were talking at lunch about this idea that excellence is the capacity to take pain,
and that the experience of pain as an entrepreneur is probably a huge competitive advantage as
an investor.
And I think you started to Oscar Health the same year as you started Thrive or very close.
So you're dual tracking this investor, obviously you're an entrepreneur having started Thrive
too, but dual tracking the investor entrepreneur styles at the same time and have ever since.
What has that interplay meant to you and to the firm?
What that experience taught me is that being a founder is incredibly romanticized and the
pain that is taken in order to ultimately achieve success is just extraordinary.
I feel like the ability to do both is something that I just feel so fortunate to do because
I feel like being a founder has enabled me to appreciate all of those that Thrive is
fortunate enough to invest in, and the ability to be exposed to so many extraordinary founders
by being a part of Thrive has enabled me to be a much better founder myself.
But as a firm, we have definitely created a culture of building.
We're building Thrive as a product.
We just happen to invest in other companies and our ambition is to be the most meaningful
partner to our founders, and we need to constantly iterate and tinker in terms of ways in which
we can do that.
But also, every single person on the investment team in some respects is building.
And I think that gives them a true appreciation of the founder struggle and the entrepreneur
struggle.
We need to tell the Oscar story specifically, the actual story for how the thing got started,
work our way towards a general set of lessons on how do you identify an interesting problem,
and how do you help take something from zero to one?
With all that in mind, tell us about how Oscar itself got started.
I broke my ankle playing basketball.
I went to the hospital, went through the traditional experience, but I remember getting home and
getting my insurance bill and realizing that I had absolutely no idea what it meant.
I had just started Thrive, and I didn't know what my benefits were, what doctors were
hospitals had access to, how to pay, claim, I said to myself, how is it that the internet
and software and data and design are transforming every single industry around us?
There's this relationship that is so fundamentally important to so many people in the country,
both from a human perspective, but also from a financial perspective, and what would be
the way in which we can take this relationship and make it simple and transparent and understandable
through technology, data, and design?
When I had thought about this idea, the Affordable Care Act was just being introduced, and the
reason why this was so exciting was because healthcare had traditionally been sold in
a B2B capacity.
People were not making decisions for themselves, and the Affordable Care Act was taking the
largest industry in our country, which represents a little less than 20% of GDP, and transforming
it from B2B to B2C.
And when people can actually make decisions for themselves, they usually choose the product
that has the perfect combination of cost and quality.
And there are so many examples of consumer choice transforming industries.
That could be the shift from businesses giving their employees blackberries to employees
choosing iPhones for themselves, or to find benefit moving to define contribution through
401K.
And I think as a result of this new market being created where there are so many people flooding
to the market at the same time, the barriers to entry, which had traditionally been so high
in a world in which there's probably a trillion dollars of enterprise value, were lowered
at one moment.
And there's just one moment where a new brand could be created to create trust for consumers.
Once at the exact time that I had this poor consumer experience, Mario, who is my co-founder,
I've asked you to have his first kid, and he eagerly had a terrible experience.
And I remember calling him and saying, "Mario, I really think that there needs to be a new
type of health insurance company."
He agreed, got together, we both read the Affordable Care Act over a weekend, which is
light reading, and we got going.
And once the experience has been extraordinary, in this story, the why now is unbelievably
clear, both in terms of your experience, but even bigger picture in terms of the Affordable
Care Act.
Under what conditions does the why now matter to less or more to you in investing and around
incubations?
Does there always need to be some galvanizing change like that that enables the new opportunity?
The why now is always fundamentally important because irrespective of people on capital,
you always need tailwinds.
So I think it's always a fundamental part of our conversation.
The why now in Oscar was so extreme, but I also think the interesting part about Oscar
was a recognition entering the founding of a company that it would be something that we
would do for decades, because we knew how fundamentally difficult it would be.
And what's the scale of Oscar now?
So we're 10 years into the company, Oscar is a million members, 6.5 billion of revenue,
but the first decade, in our opinion, is only a couple chapters through what the ultimate
story is.
Oscar has been an incredible journey in terms of, we call it, the templates of Oscar.
Affordable Care Act was extremely volatile.
I think there were 33 new insurance companies that were created as a part of the Affordable
Care Act and only two remaining.
There was obviously a new administration that was very opposed to the Affordable Care Act,
which led to increased volatility.
There was the global pandemic.
When we started Oscar, I think one of the core insights that we had as we think about
the next decade is, if you were to start an e-commerce business today, you can launch
on Shopify, you can plug in Stripe, you can plug in any basic data analytics service,
and you're ready to go.
If you were to start a health insurance company 10 years ago or even today, there is very limited
technology that you can utilize.
Sir Idea was not only should we build a health insurance company that consumers loved, we
also had this vision of what would it look like to actually create the operating system
that would enable us to run a health insurance company end to end.
And as we actually think about the next decade, we are the only people that have created this
end to end system that enables you to operate a health insurance company and have a longitudinal
view of a member from end to end.
And as we think about deploying LLMs across this product, we get extremely excited about
the transformations that are going to come.
Do the pleasures and the pain of running and helping run a mature platform like Oscar,
are those pleasures and pains very different from the pleasures and pains of the really
stages of businesses?
If there's one takeaway from founding businesses over my career, it's just as hard to start
a small business as it is to start a large business, and it only gets harder the larger
the business gets.
It only gets more complex.
I remember probably six or seven years ago, we had made an offer to a CTO, and I remember
having dinner with Carly, and I said to her, if he accepts, everything will be in a good
place.
And she said, Josh, we've only been together for a couple of years now, but you've been
saying that for a lot of things, and you just have to accept the reality that the challenges
are only going to increase.
That wisdom was so incredible for me.
She made me realize if you're building something and the ambition is extraordinary, the challenges
are only going to continue to come because the problem that you're trying to solve is
only increasing over time.
So I think as we invest in any company at the early stages, or even invest in the companies
at the later stages, our views are always oriented towards, we should only try to be
a part of things that have really grand ambitions.
We should only invest in companies whose ambitions are to be standalone public companies, we
should only invest in products that have the desire to truly transform an industry or create
a new one.
And I actually think going through the founder experience and still going through it today,
I spent a decent portion of my weekend working on something for Oscar.
You just have to know that the bigger the business gets, the harder it gets.
And as a result of that, the ambition for what you're ultimately trying to create should
only be extraordinary from the start.
One of my favorite snippets from all the interviews I've done was Joey Levine at IAC saying
he once walked into Diller's office and had this opportunity to say, you know, if we
really do it right, we'll have a hundred million revenue in this timeline.
And if we really do it right, it'll be a hundred million in profit.
And Diller looks at him and goes, ah, why bother?
Like, why would we work on something so small?
I thought there was such a wonderful story around scope of ambition.
It brings to mind just all the other things you've done on the incubation side where the
lesson is if you're going to do it, it's hard no matter what.
So go for something that can be really, really big.
How do you think about identifying good problems through that lens or that frame?
You've done it in healthcare several times.
You've done it elsewhere.
What does a good problem look like?
And how do you think about bringing it from zero to one now that you've done this more
than 10 times, I think, through Thrive?
Yeah, we've started over a dozen businesses and every single person on the investment
team currently has been a part of an incubation at Thrive.
So every single person at the firm is building everyone understands the pain the founders
go through.
They're experiencing it themselves.
I think our view is there are big markets, there are large markets and there are infinite
markets.
And I think the only places that you want to play are in the infinite markets.
I think no differently than our investments, every single incubation that we create has
a grand ambition, but there's usually a very specific product that we believe should be
built from the beginning that ultimately creates a wedge into a much larger opportunity.
We would ultimately be dissatisfied if that larger opportunity is not captured.
And ultimately, no matter how thoughtful we are about identifying that opportunity alongside
the partners that we're ultimately working with, if the person who is ultimately building
that business is not end of one, nothing's going to happen.
I think the last incubations at the firm have been created by Gaurav, Vince, and Kareem,
and they have just an incredible amount of humility and self-awareness around the quality
of the person that they ultimately want to work with.
I think they're extraordinary top-down thinkers in terms of thinking about what the opportunities
are that could lead to outsized outcomes.
But at the end of the day, if we're not building alongside extraordinary people, nothing's
ultimately going to realize it's full potential.
What was the moment that you decided to start thrive in the first place?
Because I think you were 25, you were extremely young, you had basically no work experience
at the time.
So what were the antecedents to thrive that matter?
What were the ingredients to the early recipe, if you will?
So I went to Harvard, graduated in 2008.
Mark Zuckerberg had started Facebook a couple of years prior, and I think that was very
motivating to a lot of us there.
We saw that someone who was a peer could build and build at an extraordinary level, and I
think that inspired a lot of us that we could do the same.
So I actually started a company when I was in college with my co-founder at Oscar Mario.
It was a social gaming company.
And that experience exposed me to this idea that something could be built, and it could
reach tens of millions of people.
And that was really intoxicating.
I actually suppressed that because a lot of the people that I respected the most at
Harvard at the time were actually going to work in finance.
So I ended up applying for a bunch of finance jobs.
I got a job at Goldman Sachs.
But while I was at Goldman, there were days where I was working 20 hours a day, and then
there were days where there was absolutely nothing to do because it felt like the world
had stopped during the global financial crisis.
And I got introduced to a company called Hot Potato, which ended up selling to Facebook
ironically.
And I asked him if I could invest in the business, and he said, of course, but you need to convince
my venture capitalist.
And I said, that sounds great.
I didn't really appreciate what venture capital was as an industry at the time.
So I ended up speaking to this firm, and I ended up being general catalyst.
And I said, well, while you're at HPS, why don't you come by for a coffee?
So I did that.
And I thought I was coming for a coffee, and they effectively offered me a job.
And I didn't join them, but after school, I would go and I'd hang out at their office
and learn from them.
And in between my first and second year of business school, the three of them effectively
said, we think you could be really good at this.
We want to give you a million dollars to invest on your own.
And I feel really grateful to them because in many respects, this is not something that
I knew that I could do.
I was working at Goldman the year prior buying distressed credit.
I just feel so lucky that they did that for me.
But that was an extraordinary, extraordinary thing because it enabled me to have the capacity
to just meet with founders, both in New York as the ecosystem was taking off, but also
on the West Coast around the time that the iPhone was introduced.
And as a result of that, I was able to invest in some really great companies and that enabled
thrive to get off the ground.
Towards the end of my time at school, General Catalyst introduced me to Andy Golden, who
is the CIO of Princeton.
And similarly, I think Andy saw more of me than I saw myself.
And he really spent time with me talking to me about what I wanted to do and what I wanted
to build.
This is a really powerful line that really resonated with me, which was as firm scale,
they start to lose a sense of who they are, they start to focus on the AOM, they start
to focus on doing things that they weren't necessarily good at in the beginning.
That leads to the vicious cycle.
The vicious cycle is you have a lower cost of capital.
The lower cost of capital leads to lower human capital, less ambitious people.
Less ambitious people leads to lower returns and it just leads to mediocrity.
And I came back to him and I said, "Well, Andy, what if I told you what I dreamed thrive
would be in 10 years from now?"
And I started doing that today.
And I pitched him this idea of being this opportunistic vehicle that had the capacity
to invest across stage sector and geography.
And keep in mind, this is at a moment in time in which you're either an early stage firm
or a later stage firm, you're either a software firm or a consumer firm.
You are either a European firm or a US firm.
Yeah.
No generalists.
Yeah.
So the idea of actually having a fund that actually could build companies, invest in
companies early and invest in companies late was so deeply unconventional.
I feel really lucky that he saw it and he understood it.
But what has enabled us to do is do the exact same thing from when we started the fund
till today.
Our first institutional fund was $40 million.
Our last institutional fund that we raised was about $3 billion.
But the strategies have been exactly the same.
The only things that have changed are the team, the scale of the brands, the knowledge
and insights of the people within the organizations.
I'd love to talk a little bit about a history lesson using the funds themselves as the timeline
mileposts, if you will.
Tell us a little bit about the significance to you and to thrive of funds one, two, three,
and four.
And then I want to pause on four and talk.
I know that was a really important fund for the firm.
So I guess start with one, two, and three.
If you had to sort of top line what was happening, why it was important and what you learned
from the first three funds, could you do that for us?
The opportunistic strategy that we've laid out to our limited partners was seen as unconventional.
So the sequencing of making sure that every fund had essentially the right ingredients
to the cocktail that we ultimately wanted to create took time, thrive to is our first
institutional fund, it was $40 million.
But in that fund, we had our first incubation in Oscar.
We led the series A of Warby Barker, and we invested in Instagram.
That was fun too, fun too, yeah, at a half billion dollar valuation.
Fun three had multiple incubations as well, quite a few early stage investments, but we
also invested in Twitch and Spotify at the later stages as well.
I think fun for was the first time where we not only did everything that we did, but we
started to develop our frameworks for concentration.
So in that fund, we had about a 15% position in GitHub, about a 10% position in Slack, 10%
in Stripe, 10% in Unity, and then we invested in Benchling and Laddis at the seeds, but
we ultimately built those up into about 10% positions over time.
And then we also incubated Cedar in that fund as well.
So I think that was the first time that we weren't only doing everything, but we started
to develop clarity that it's not only about investing at every stage and in every geography
and in every sector, but also being extremely disciplined around almost doing a lot, but
not doing a lot and making sure that ultimately the things that we wanted in the portfolio
or once that we were extremely concentrated in that we wanted to hold for a very long
period of time.
How did you know that that was the right move going from funds two and three into four?
Speaking how it seems simple in retrospect, but I think our view at that time was there
was this mismatch in terms of at the earliest stages and the later stages in that no one
was creating and no one was also investing at later stages.
And our ability to actually beat out traditional later stage funds as a result of our product
and strategy orientation at the later stages was something that we were taking advantage
of that time because the competition was mostly coming from mutual funds, blending down towards
privates and our ability to kind of approach what we believed to be these category-defining
businesses at the later stages and deploying meaningful amounts of capital into them.
For what we believed to be attractive prices, even though they were seen as later stage
at that time was something that we were indexing towards.
You raised this idea of competition, right? The competition wasn't doing X, Y, and Z and
it created an opportunity and I'd love your perspective on industry-wide competition today
and kind of your views on the different models for, I guess, building a venture firm or building
a private equity firm just in general.
Obviously, you've gone one direction with Thrive.
Maybe the opposite of the spectrum would be something like artisanal, small partnership,
couple of partners that share economics. There's lots of examples like this where they do it,
two people or three people or something like that. That would be one model I'd be curious
for your thoughts on. And then the other like monoliths that have now built multi-stage firms,
built firms that can go anywhere, do anything, have teams of different geographies.
How do you think about the different models, pros and cons from your seat and what you've observed?
We have specific points of views on this, but I think it would be unfair to say that
the other views that others have are incorrect. What works well for us might not work well for
other people. I think the most important framing that we have internally, as I expressed earlier,
is Thrive is a company. We have a product. Our product is our strategy and our investment process,
but also our ambition to be the most meaningful partner to our founders and we let our founders
determine what meaningful is to them. The market is constantly changing and the idea that people
in our industry can have the perspective that the market can change, but the ways in which they
do their jobs doesn't change has never necessarily resonated. And I actually think the ways in which
we approach Thrive is no different than how a lot of our founders approach their businesses.
Our best companies ship weekly or monthly and our view is we need to be shipping weekly or monthly
in terms of the ways in which we are making decisions or serving our founders. But we are a
company. We are building a company. We are founders. We just happen to be founders of
an investment firm. And I think a lot of people don't think about investors as founders. They
don't think of them as builders. We think of ourselves as builders. We're just building Thrive.
We do have strong opinions on the ways in which we do things, which is we believe in the general
list model. We've always shied away from sector specific funds. And I think if you have these funds
that are so focused on a specific sector, the argument that you can make is that you see everything
and that you have the prepared mind to make the right decisions. The counter argument is you feel
the pressure to deploy capital into a sector as a result of the fact you have a sector specific
fund. So we really believe that the best ideas are the ones that we should invest in. Thrive
started by primarily investing in consumer oriented businesses. Our first funds had, as I
mentioned before, Warby and Harry's and Twitch and Instagram and Spotify and many others. If we had
stayed focused entirely on being consumer oriented, then I think the returns that we would have
created would look very differently. You can apply the frameworks that you have from one
opportunity or one sector to another. You've asked me a lot about how we actually identify
companies. I actually think we, in many respects, apply a consumer lens to every single deal that
we're doing. Whether or not it's a payments business or an enterprise software business.
At the end of the day, each product has a consumer. It has an enterprise understanding the nuance of
that product, understanding how special that product is, whether or not it's a feature or
something that is truly fundamentally important to someone and why it's important to someone
is something that we constantly go back to. So I think you can apply the frameworks from one
sector to another, but I think the idea of actually being sector-specific is not something that we've
ever oriented towards. I want to spend a few minutes on talent and people and recruiting them
and seeing potential in even very young people, which you just described a few people seeing in you.
I don't know if you know this, but the first time I was in your office, I was with David Fialko
immediately beforehand. I mentioned I was going and he got this as Fialko's want to do,
this sparkle in his eye. I'm curious what you think that was. Why, when you were 25,
did a few people who we can now safely call investing legends, both on the endowment side
and the GP side. What do you think they saw? Another way of introducing the question is what
you see in others, because you've done the same thing over and over again, in turn, paid it forward,
I guess. But starting with you, what do you think it was that Andy and David and Joel and
all these people saw early on in someone that objectively didn't have an investing track record?
I can't speak for them, but I think there was an extraordinary amount of independent thought that
went into the thesis behind Thrive. I would say a tenacity and a drive to do whatever was possible
in order for us to ultimately be the best versions of ourselves. I think there's a level of self
motivation, humility, that immigrant-like mentality that goes into the ways in which
every single person thinks of the firm that I think resonated with them because they're all
thinking very similarly. Where does the immigrant mentality land for you? I know that's a common
theme of people that you've worked with and for you and your family too. Say a little bit more about
people for that phrase, they understand the general concept, but what does that felt experience?
So my grandparents were Holocaust survivors. They both lived in what would be modern-day
Belarus. My grandmother lived in a small town. At one point, it became a ghetto. She was a part of
a small group of people that dug a tunnel that was 90 feet to escape the ghetto, had many members
of her family murdered, escaped to join the partisans in the forest, the Balski Brigade.
There's a movie called Defiance, which Daniel Craig stars in, which was
that group of people, to then wait out to finish the war to live in a refugee camp in Italy for
three or four years to come to the States with nothing but her and my grandfather, the shirts on
their back to create a life for themselves. So growing up around the dinner table, I was hearing
that story and the story about how my grandfather, who came here as a labor on construction sites,
how he would sleep in the homes that he was building out or save money on gas.
And I think the lessons for me were, I am entitled to nothing. America's the greatest country in the
world where everything is possible. Perseverance and tenacity and having the capacity, as I expressed
earlier, to just deal with pain is something that leads to greatness. And I think a lot of
people that work at Thrive have very similar mindsets. They feel like they need to do whatever
they can to be the best version of themselves. How do you think about maintaining the power of
that story in your own family and in your business? Obviously, so many of the hard things that people
go through, shape them in extreme ways, probably in the ways that you're describing. And then,
hopefully, things get better. And you and I talk about our kids a lot. How do you think about this
story and your kids or this story and the next person, the partner that joins you at Thrive and
harnessing this story for good, I guess is the way to ask the question, and maintaining the power
that it's had for you personally, which sounds pretty significant. I think stories are impactful,
but actions are a lot more impactful. So, as I think about how Carly and I can ultimately pass
lessons down to our children one day, it's going to be entirely based on our actions and how we
act and how we live our lives and the priorities that we have and the values that we have. With
regards to work, my partners and I can never ask anyone to do anything that we're not willing to do
ourselves. I actually feel like as the firm has gotten larger, in many respects, the tenacity is
increased, the desire to be even better as increased, the focus on winning and the ways in which we
want to do it with our values and integrity, I think, are things that we're even more focused on.
We can talk about talent whenever you want, but there's a line that I use at the firm all the time,
which is if you actually have to choose between the most experienced person, the most educated
person, or the person who actually wants it the most, you always pick the person who wants it the
most. There is no substitute for hard work. There is no substitute for willing to outwork
someone else, and that can translate into your personal life just as much as it can translate
into your work life. I think I said this to you during lunch, if you're not embarrassed about who
you were two years ago, you're not growing. A mentor of mine once said that to me. I feel that way
about myself as an individual, not just within the business world. I think it's that chip on your
shoulder that you feel like you just have to get better all the time, that I think is what we look
for in people at the firm. I would like to linger on talent because I totally agree that the work
ethic and wanting it more is the ultimate advantage in persistence trumps, maybe everything else.
That being said, I'm lucky to know some of your partner's current and past, and one of the things
that I think if everyone listening met them would stand out is their intellect, whether that's miles
who's now a bunch of Mark or Chris, who's now a pace or Kareem who's with you now, all these people
have, I think what could be fairly described as a sparkling intellect. Someone said to me about
Miles one time, what's the deal? What's his superpower? This is a very good investor that said this to
me. It's like, he's just smarter than everyone. So amongst a group of really talented smart people,
how do you test for the wants it more? Gee, if that's the thing that you choose over everything
else and you're lucky to hunt in a really smart, talented pool of people, how do you test for that,
especially if the person's very young, which has been the case in a lot of thrives partners
or mid 20s or late 20s, they're young people. I will always take someone's desire to win more
so than anything else. But our view is that there's a major difference between being intelligent
and being smart. And I think we look for people who are deeply independent in their thought process
that have an incredible first principles lens and that are creative enough to imagine things
that have never existed before, but analytical enough to be able to understand businesses at any
stage and in any sector. One of the things that we have done, I think, very effectively is we've
taken people that have started off their careers at places like a Blackstone or a Bridgewater that
were trained with a very financial lens, but just realized that it wasn't the right place for them.
And actually think that has enabled us to truly identify people that are so unique in their thinking.
They don't know what everyone in our industry is talking about. If you were to sit down with
anyone who works at any firm and asks them about artificial intelligence right now,
they will likely be able to regurgitate whatever it is that they heard on whatever podcast they
listen to. If you take someone who's thinking about global macro, at Bridgewater, or distressed
debt investing and give them a day to give you their best points of views on whatever topic
is interesting to us thrive and they're able to come with incredible analysis and articulate it
in a very intense debate. That is the type of person that we want out the team.
When you think back to the earliest days and the first couple of funds, what were the investments
that were the things that started to form the kernels of the story? Obviously, there's the
Instagram story. We can tell that if it's interesting and people know you for it, so maybe it's worth
hearing your version of it. But along with that one, what were the other consequential investments
that you made early on and what was going on around them? So maybe to take a step back,
our ambition is to really be extremely concentrated in both ideas and people.
Both at the early stages and the later stages, we purposely have built a small team to actually
create constraint around what we can do. How small or small? We manage approximately $15 billion
and our investment team is nine people. Our view is the only way to have a team is to have a small
team. In addition to that, the only way to have a small team is to have a team of
people who respect each other equally. And that doesn't mean that everyone needs to be
exceptional at the same things. That means that every single person brings something
completely different to the table. Irrespective of their age, irrespective of their experience.
I want to understand how that philosophy developed in the early days. So Thrive could
have gone a million directions. You are concentrated. Proofs in the pudding there. Was that how you
planned it from the start? When you were doing your independent thinking exercise that convinced
Sandy Golden that you're onto something, was that part of it or did that develop as a result of
early deal making, early investments, early observations? How did that crystallize?
We're of the belief that artists like to live in artist colonies and that every single person
that joins an organization should be the most extraordinary person that we can find
irrespective of the role that they're playing. And I think we also have the belief that one
extraordinary person could do 10 people's jobs. One of the things that we've done very well,
I think as a lot of organizations grow and people become more established, they start to hire for
leverage. And our mindset has always been everyone that we hire to the organizations should be
extraordinary. But also every single person that is hired to the investment team has the capacity
to be a partner. The mindset is this person. A lot of organizations are a come worker for two
years or in your out. But every single offer that we give to people on the investment team is with
the expectation that if they are successful, they will be a partner at the firm. And I think that
has forced us to be incredibly disciplined around every single person that we bring onto the team
irrespective if they're two years out of school or 10 years out of school. They should raise the
bar for us. And I think that's enabled us to do as much as we've done with as few people as we've
done. Going back to the only way to have a team is to have a small team. We've taken, I think,
a pretty unconventional point of view, which is we don't believe in consensus. We don't believe
in complete autonomy. We believe in the team. I think a lot of firms have a point of view that
everyone needs to agree in order for a decision to be made. A lot of firms believe that if you have
the right people within the organization, they should have the capacity to just make whatever
decision is that they want. I don't convince the team that we should do a deal. We don't do a deal
because I believe in the team. And I think that's a very, very, very powerful thing. The only way to
actually do that is if you have a group of people that respects each other, respects each other's
points of views, respects each other's perspectives. I'd love to talk about your great analogy for all
the kinds of investing that you do that uses real estate as a proxy. Maybe I'll kick it off with an
idea that someone said to me recently, which is the market may underprice market leading positions
in companies. I guess another way of saying that is may underprice quality at a certain stage of
development. And I think the analogy you've told me about you explaining this to your mom, what you
did through the lens of real estate was really, really interesting and informative if you could
share the whole framework. As we've talked about, we have a core belief that as a firm, we should
be concentrated in exceptional companies and exceptional people. And our view is that the best
companies compound themselves over a very long period of time. We're hoping to invest in companies
that we're partnering with for decades. And I'm not sure if that's a benefit of our ages or the fact
that we know that the best investors are the ones that have picked businesses and have held them for
a very long period of time. The running joke in my family for some period of time is that my mom
thinks I fixed computers for a living. She is still calling me when the TV is broken. But I've always
tried my best to kind of explain to her what we do in the context of real estate. At the later stages,
I always say to her that we invest in Fifth Avenue. And my view is you always pay a fair price for
Fifth Avenue. Markets go up, markets go down. But at the end of the day, if you invest in quality,
that quality will ultimately compound on itself. There's a scarcity value to quality. Those that
invest in Fifth Avenue a decade ago are happy that they have it today. The biggest mistakes that we've
made as a firm are when we've way overpaid for Fifth Avenue or we've bought Third Avenue thinking
that it would become Fifth Avenue. And that's just never the case. Our view is if you are concentrated
in the most exceptional businesses and you hold those businesses with very long times, a lot of the
value in those sectors that you're investing in will ultimately accrue to the number one player.
There are a lot of firms that actually have a very different point of view, which is they
would like to invest in the third player in an industry. Our view is we want to partner with the
most visionary founders that are building the category of finding assets in their sectors
and partner with them over very long periods of time because the value will ultimately
compound on itself. To continue the real estate analogy at the earliest stages, I always say to her
for the Metropolitan folks listening to this podcast, we're going to Jersey City 10 years ago,
we're going to Astoria, we're going to Williamsburg, we're going to Bed-Stuy. Sometimes we'll get
those neighborhoods right way before anyone else and sometimes we won't. But our ambition is to
be in those neighborhoods way before anyone else has moved there and really dream of what they
can be way before the rest of the market identifies them. At what stage of a company's life do you
think that it can be on Fifth Avenue? Is it a revenue stage on average? Is it like a fundraising
stage? At what point does that quality third versus Fifth Avenue things start to sort itself
out do you think on average? It has less to do with revenue or valuation. It has more to do with
how the end consumer or the end customer feels about the product. And we talked a little bit about
our orientation around approaching our investments with a consumer lens. A lot of people the firm
have an incredibly creative side to them. In some respects there's like an artistic orientation of
a lot of people at the firm. I think as we think about what is a premier company, a lot of it has
to do with the quality of the product and the eyes of those that are actually using that product.
That is how we identify what Fifth Avenue is. Consumers or enterprises can change but I think
there's a level of love for products that we've invested in where the switching costs are so high
as a result of how the end customer thinks about them. Can you give an example? Not a specific one.
I don't want to name companies but of the category mistake of thinking Third Avenue is Fifth Avenue.
What is it that has snared you in that specific trap especially at the late stages? The thing that
I love about concentration is you need to be so all in on the idea that you're willing to kind of
bet the farm in some respects. No compromises. I think other mistakes I've made is every time
that the firm has ever sized down a position based on our perception of risk. It's never
led to an extraordinary outcome. We try our best to identify these things. Stripe just raised a
large round. We felt fortunate to be a part of it. We put a billion seven five between us and our
partners and to the company. I can't think of a better business model and a more extraordinary
team for us to have the opportunity to invest in a very deep way. If you think about the environment
that we're facing today and the tension of I'll call it like a hangover from extreme valuations
especially late in COVID. Apple just announced their new product which you mentioned you started
your career at admin immobile and we know where that led. This is an explosion of opportunity
in companies and AI has been happening. We've talked a lot about it offline over the last call
it year now. So you've got these two unbelievably exciting could be new technology platforms or
enabling technologies that are exploding on the scene at the same time as we're dealing with this
tremendous hangover and it seems to be the end of a capital cycle. It feels like a weird time.
How do you incorporate your understanding of the time and the prevailing circumstances like the
ones I just described in an investing process and I'm asking this because you've seen a lot of them
now. You started the great financial crisis. You've seen a lot of environments since then as an
investor. Do you care? Does it matter? Does the macro environment matter much to you?
So I think the best way to answer that question would be to talk about my experience at Goldman Sachs.
So I started my career in the summer of 2008. I showed up at the office one Saturday night
just to get ahead of the week and many of those that I was reporting to were in the office. I asked
them what they were working on. They said that they were underwriting all of Lehman Brothers' real estate
assets. I asked if they needed help. I was just a couple weeks into the job but did my best to
support them in whatever way I could. This group that I was a part of ultimately decided that
it made sense to pass on buying Lehman's assets and the next day Lehman announced that it was going
under. I had this true appreciation in that moment. I remember getting home Sunday night,
knowing what was coming on Monday morning and feeling like the world was going to change in a
very dramatic way. It did. I remember a couple months later I was in the office the day after
Thanksgiving. I was working on something. I think I was the only person there and I remember calling
my father to see how his day was going. I said to him, "Dad, do you think the world has changed
forever and is lying to me which stuck with me?" I think really has led to a lot of our thinking
around investing is the world doesn't end very often. There are cycles and it's important to
understand where you are in the cycle. I think the things to appreciate though in this moment,
you want to run to something whenever else is running away. I think we have definitely tried
our best to do that in this moment. As the market is facing the volatility that it's facing,
we kind of try our best to take a step back and say, "Do we believe in the fundamentals of the
space that we're working in? Do we believe that the long-term trends of socio-technology innovation
are going to move in a very particular direction? Do we believe in this group of exceptional
founders that we've had the opportunity to partner with? Do we believe in their products and their
positioning? If so, lean in when others are leaning away." It's scary to run into a burning
building whenever else is running away. I think those that I respect the most have
benefited tremendously in their careers when they've done the exact same thing.
What was your reaction when you saw Nat Friedman and Daniel Gross's
available computer for, I don't know what else to call it, do you know what I'm talking about?
Although it's brilliant, Daniel, some that I respect a ton, actually invested in his first
company out of YC and that took over GitHub after it was sold to Microsoft. All of these AI
companies just need compute. They said, "Here you go." Their orientation is, "Hey, we can give you
money or we can just give you compute." Naturally, that's going to lead to them investing in these
companies, but it's just brilliant. Constantly thinking about why are things done a certain way.
Going back to our conversation around the ways in which the industry has existed,
I think there are some beautiful aspects to the ways in which the industry has existed.
But my hope is that as a firm, we're constantly questioning those things and pushing the boundaries
no differently than our companies with the main goal of being, how do we actually serve
our customer and our customer as our founders? If we're constantly pushing the boundaries
around ways in which we can do that, then I'll be happy that we're questioning the rules.
For someone that's so deliberate about people in their lives, why sell a small stake of thrive
the business itself to the group of people that you sold it to? Walk me through that episode of
why you did it and what you get out of it. Sure, so thrive sold in January, a 3% stake to
a group of five individuals. Bob Iger, who's a CEO of Disney, Mukesh Ambani, who's the founder
of Reliance, Zavian Niel, who's prolific French entrepreneur and investor, George Apollo Lemon,
who started 3G and has run and operated many extraordinary businesses. And then Henry Kavras,
who founded and scaled KKR. The reason for the transaction was very much us as a group thinking
in first principles around the reality that our best companies have cap tables and they have
cap tables with extraordinary investors, but also they have boards. As the firm has scaled,
the idea of actually having people who have built meaningful businesses and have operated
meaningful businesses is something that we were very excited to have as a part of our
organization. So we feel very lucky to have this extraordinary group. How do you think about
setting and controlling your own ambition and thinking all the way back to your first
conversation with Andy Golden about the polls that happen on asset management firms as they scale
and trying to keep some purity. The way you talk about a concentration of people and ideas is that
expression of that purity. Do you have big ambitions? Do you think about I want thrive to be X, Y, or Z
in 10 years? Is that prudent? How do you think about it? We are very focused on the inputs,
not the outputs. Going back to the Andy Golden comment that he made to me, if I said to you
right now, thrive as 15 billion, our ambition is to be $100 billion in 10 years from now.
Bad ambition. It would be the wrong way to think about things. My view is we need to focus on what
is enabled us to get to where we are today, which is how do we have the highest density of human
capital in our industry? How do we create an environment where people feel so empowered
to do big, bold, ambitious things? How do we be the most meaningful partner to our founders?
How do we be great fiduciaries for our limited partners? How do we create the most exceptional
culture of transparency and kindness and then whatever it ends up being able to be? Of course,
we want to partner with the most extraordinary founders who are making the biggest impact in the
world. We want to be there by their sides. We want to build some of these companies ourselves.
And we want to do it for a very long time. But I think thinking about the inputs is the right
way to approach the problem. A tactical question, which is how do you manage the tension between
being the CEO of thrive the business that you're building in all those ways you just described
and being a pure play investor that is looking at companies and meeting people and thinking about
ideas. Those two things both take a lot of time. How do you actually do those things you just
described of building the pieces of thrive? Is it a trusted lieutenant? Is it, I'm just curious
in the nuts and bolts of how the thing actually works. Kareem Nithin, Noriara Chairman, Nabil and
I were talking about this last night, which is ultimately, as the firm has grown, we've gone from
people who are just making music to, in some respects, being conductors. But our view is
the danger that a lot of firms have is that they just focus on conducting. And when you're just
focused on conducting, but you're not making any music, you actually shouldn't know what notes
sound good and what notes that don't sound good. You shouldn't know who the best violinist is.
So as an organization, we've always been very committed, irrespective of the fact that we have
to manage the firm and its ambitions. We need to spend a disproportionate amount of our time
making music. And that's how we do spend our time. You need to do both. You need a lead. But you also
need to be focused on getting better at the craft. If you're not focused on getting better at the
craft every day, then you become mediocre. How do you do that? Is it different learning?
Maybe we could take a real example today with AI, just because it's the obvious one that everyone's
curious about and talking about. Is it just constant conversations with the smartest people you can
find? Is it sitting and thinking? Is it reading? Is it all the above? Is it talking to your team?
There's only 10 hours in the day or whatever it is that you can work. How do you think about
allocating them? It's less about the process. It's the intention of the process. So there's
obviously different ways in which you can go about learning. But I think the intellectual
honesty that goes into the process is something that I have found has benefited us the most to
actually develop our own informed points of views and perspectives. So when we're sitting around
the table talking about an opportunity, everyone is approaching that conversation
with the level of humility and self-awareness that none of us can predict the future.
One of the most humbling moments of my career was right after I invested in Instagram,
Snap started to grow in a very meaningful way. And Instagram was one of these products where
I used it. I loved it. I understood it. The natural expectation was that because I understood
one social product, I should understand the other. And actually, didn't get Snap. I didn't appreciate
it. And I think as I started my career, there was this expectation that, and while I do believe
that instinct is a very powerful thing, and people should trust their instincts,
I was other than the most point of view that in this industry, you are just meant to trust your
instincts. But if our jobs are to break the future, if any of us could, we should be doing
things a lot more important in our lives and investing in companies. So I think the mindset that
we take is not of us can predict the future. We just need to have an intellectually honest
conversation about where we think the world is going, developer informed points of views,
but that intellectual honesty and that intention around actually learning is what enables us to
develop our conclusions. So having lived through mobile and cloud, and so many of these big things
that have driven the world, what do you think of these two latest things and what they might
unlock? And I know you've invested in OpenAI, so obviously you're super familiar with what's
going on and how exciting it is, and also the limitations and all these sorts of things.
At this point in time, what is your model for thinking about these things?
I think it's the most exciting paradigm shift that I've had the opportunity to be exposed to
in my career because of the potential implications of it. When you start to think way out in terms of
what these models can do in terms of transforming processes that exist in our lives or incredible
services that exist in our lives or very human real aspects of the ways in which we live,
whether it be health or drug discovery or things of that nature, it's exciting. It's powerful.
We've been amazed by all that the company has done in such a short period of time since Chachi
PT has launched. Obviously they've been working on the product for a very long period of time.
I think from an investor's perspective and as we're thinking about building companies in the space
as well, I think one of the trickiest things is not whether or not value will be created but
where we value ultimately a crew to. Obviously we made an extremely large
investment in OpenAI as a result of the fact that we think a lot of value and a lot of impact
as a result of the fact that we think that they have an extraordinary product but also
a very high density of talent building the space will accrue to them, but where it ultimately falls
elsewhere or something that we're still spending time on. I think the insights that exist today
and as to whether or not these insights will be relevant in a couple of years from now is one,
this feels like the first paradigm shift that I've been exposed to in my career where the incumbent
has the first run of refusal. As a result of the fact that this is an API based paradigm shift
as opposed to an operating system based paradigm shift, the ability for every company to access
the same technology at the exact same time puts people in a position in which they can utilize
this technology to improve their businesses. So as on-prem move to cloud or desktop move to mobile
or other things have transformed over time, I think the ability, analog move to digital like
the ability for every company to just implement this technology very seamlessly is something that
we're seeing at a pretty rapid pace. I think the other thing that we at least have a point of
view and perspective on is that this is going to be both top line and bottom line agree different.
The ability to transform enterprise or consumer experience and potentially increase our poo
or in addition to that, automate a lot of processes as likely as well.
I'd love to do the same just a couple other categories. So just go down to the weeds of what
you've learned in a category building and investing in companies. The first of which is crypto.
You've really been notable in your absence from that space. We've talked about extensively like
you guys can go anywhere, you can do anything, you could have done a lot of crypto, you didn't.
Why not? What was less exciting about that? What answer were you have given in early 2021 when
everyone was investing lots of money in crypto? What was it about that space? What was your
model of that space at the time? We have a core belief that there's an important place in the
world for crypto. I think the technology that has been created and will continue to be created
can be extremely meaningful. I think the reasons why we struggled over the last years has been
primarily oriented towards the fact that it has felt like there's been solutions in search of
problems and we try our best to be extremely simple and everything that we do and we try
really hard to understand the problems that some of these technologies were trying to solve
and we couldn't. Our orientation to approaching the sector was more oriented towards, "Okay,
if this is something that is going to take off, let's invest in the picks and travels associated
with the space." I think you can invest in something that you don't understand. There's a difference
between a great company and a great investment and don't invest in things that you don't understand.
If you don't understand it, you can't invest in it. I think the discipline that we brought to the
sector is something that I'm both proud of, but in the spirit of vulnerability, I think we felt
deeply insecure as everyone else making money hand over face was pitching this version of the world.
It's funny, as we talked about, I'm not a big Twitter user, but in my one tweet of the year,
I went back and I said, "Where did all the .eths go?" They're gone. No one has NFT
profile picks anymore. Do we just erase this from our memories? I think that's roughly what's
happened to us. But anyway, I think blockchain software is something that we believe in and
I think it has an important purpose in the world and when and if it solves a tangible problem,
you understand you'd be interested. Yes, of course. Like everything else, always open-minded.
What about financial services/fintech? How do you think of the world of opportunity
in and around that space? Our fintech investments so far have been on the infrastructure side as
we've talked about Stripe and Plaid on the direct consumer side, New Bank and Brazil,
Monzo in the UK, Robinhood, and then on the B2B side, Ramp, and then in some respects,
B2B to see a firm. I think from our perspectives, we've just always been oriented towards there's
been this incredible consumerization of financial services products and the ability to actually
create meaningful relationships with a lot less friction within consumers has created businesses
that have grown pretty significantly without any customer acquisition as a result of the products
that they've created. I think as we've seen across our portfolio, there's usually one-hero product
and that product leads to incredible demand but utilizing that distribution to ultimately
introduce lots of different products over time is something that we've seen create a meaningful
enterprise value. We are big believers that there will continue to be tremendous innovation
in the financial services space. We're also tremendously impressed by how some of the incumbents have
reacted to the innovation that has been brought forth by some of the companies that I've mentioned
but I think there's so much more to ultimately do. Are there other areas that you think as distinct
areas of opportunity like fintech, healthcare, AI, etc. If I were to frame the way in which we
think about investing, we invest in consumer so e-commerce and on the direct to consumer side,
we've invested in businesses that are very much oriented around the framework of cost, quality,
and convenience. So how do you actually sell a better product in a more convenient way at a
lower cost in the incumbent? So throw warby, skims, Harry's, hymns into that relevant framework.
I would say aggregation, commerce, so an instacart or fanatics, and then the third is just traditional
marketplaces. On the second category that we've traditionally invested in would be traditional
industries that are utilizing software or the distribution of the internet to provide a better
consumer experience to the end consumer in a more capital efficient way. So think financial
services, healthcare, insurance, real estate. The third is software. We've talked a lot about
some of the companies that we've invested in. And then the fourth would be software enabled
hardware. It would be Androl and SpaceX. I think hardware is something that we traditionally avoided
just given the capital requirements associated but also just the long lead times. But the ability
to kind of apply an operating system on top of hardware is something that we've seen with those
two companies and is something that we've been paying much closer attention to.
What was it like shadowing? I'm thinking of a legendary technologist. And I know early in
your career, you shadowed Mark Andreessen for a period of time. I think Michael Ovett's introduced
you. What was that? Why did you do that? And what was the experience like?
So Michael Ovett's invested in Thrive's first $5 million fund and talk about someone willing to
do the work. Yeah, 100%. I never really properly spent time in Silicon Valley before. And he suggested
while I was there, I spent a couple days with interest in Horowitz to kind of learn about how
they operated the firm. And Mark was so generous. He had me sit in on all of his meetings. I was 25
years old at the time. And I was truly blown away by one his generosity, his willingness to include
me because a friend of his suggested that he did was just extremely kind and generous of him,
his curiosity, but also his tenacity. And actually, one of the models of Thrive after I came back
from that experience was Mark started Netscape. And he's still doing everything he possibly can
to be an extremely value added partner to his founders. We didn't start Netscape. So we need
to go above and beyond. So even a line that we use today at the firm is we did not start Netscape.
So let's just remind ourselves that that did not happen.
You and I have talked before about the power of communication, which is funny since you basically
never communicate with the outside world. I think it's great. And I appreciate if you're doing it here.
When you think of great communicators, and I know there's lots that might come to mind,
but who comes most immediately to mind for you? The person that I admire the most with regards
to communication is Bob Iger or Cecio of Disney. I've always looked up to him because he leads with
humility and kindness. I think every single time that I've heard him speak or the book that he's
written that I've read, there's a level of self-awareness and humility to his story that I've just admired
and appreciated. What have you learned from Stan Druckenmiller? Stan has been someone I've looked
up to. I feel fortunate for how much time he's been willing to give me over the course of my career.
But I think what I've learned from him is both to focus on the macro and the micro.
I think he just has such an incredible lens into the world and all of the different factors that
are impacting the world, but also in appreciation for quality of companies and quality of founders.
And the ability to do both so well is something that I've learned so much from. And he also just
has a way of focusing on simplicity as well, but I've admired so much. I was amazed to see him pop up
as an early investor in Palantir. He gave a talk with Alex Karp at Palantir. It's surprising. It's
disorienting to see this macro guy that's mostly talking about interest rates all of a sudden like
pop up early and all these company deals too. Kind of an unbelievable story. What about Henry
Kraviss? What does he tell you? I think I've learned a lot from Henry with regards to what it takes
to build a firm, how important people are within an organization. Henry in many respects created
private equity as an industry. I think for him to pass down the lessons that he's accumulated
over the course of his career have been tremendously beneficial with regards to how we're thinking
about building the firm. Every step of the way KKR has innovated in terms of becoming the firm
that it is today because they created the industry. They created the LBO. As we think about rules
and doing things that are different, having him as someone that I can constantly go to to get advice
and guidance is something that I feel fortunate to have. The only rule is there is no rules. I think
it's a good thing to remember. Well, there are rules. Ignore them. In the investing world,
there are some rules you absolutely must always follow. Of course, of course. Last one on this
type. What about David Geffen? I love David so much. I look up to him in so many ways.
I think David has always been such a big proponent of helping me from a very young age,
not care about what other people think. He's always just been such a great person to get advice
from on both life and business-oriented things and has just been such an incredible mirror.
He's one of the most special people that I've ever met and I owe so much to him.
Did he tell you or show you or a combination to not care what other people think?
He showed me and he told me. He has always constantly expressed to me that you only have one life
and you need to live your life and you need to be who you are. You shouldn't care about what
other people think because at the end of the day, it's only about what you think about yourself.
But also, he definitely showed me that that's the case too.
My favorite Joseph Campbell quote is the privilege of a lifetime is being who you are,
which sounds very simple, but it's actually quite hard to do. Sounds like that's the last of these
tell you. David's been very generous to me. How has becoming a father changed you?
Fatherhood is amazing because all the cliches of fatherhood are true.
Daniel Akk actually had this great line to me before Levi was born, which he said,
children fill a void that you didn't know you had. What a good line.
And it leads to a level of simplification and prioritization in your life that is extremely
powerful. And I always knew that I wanted to be a present father and to build a life with Carly,
but when it actually happens, it's just so magical. It puts so much into perspective.
Do you think you're different at work as a result of being a dad?
Absolutely. In what ways? I think being a parent in some respects helps you truly understand what's
important, but being a parent also at the same time is the first time where you both give and feel
unconditional love. There's this incredible feeling that you have when you're a parent
to your children that you're just so excited to give. You're just so excited to be there for them.
And also, I think the most incredible thing about being a father for me has been seeing Carly as a
mother. The most beautiful thing about being a parent has been seeing her in that way. And I think
in many respects, it's made me fall even more in love with her. Are there values in the business
that a lot of them just come through and all your answers? But I know every year you write a very
simple restatement, I guess I would call it, of firm values that you send to the whole firm.
Any of those that you think are really important that we haven't touched on as much?
10/11 years into the firm, I think we've truly developed a deeper understanding of who we are
and what we do. And we've spoken about a lot of that at length today in terms of us being deeply
concentrated and people and ideas and extremely long-term in our thinking and focusing on
exceptional people and exceptional businesses that can compound for a period of time. But
I think one of the other core insights that I've had is the power of balancing patience and impatience.
I'm deeply inspired by all that Berkshire Hathaway has been able to build over the many decades that
it's been operating. And there's this constant articulation of the fact that there's very few
decisions that are actually important. But my view is the only way to actually be in a position in
which you can make those very few decisions is to be extremely anxious about the fact that
you are not seeing everything. So we are incredibly impatient as an organization in terms of
trying to understand everything that we possibly can around every theme, every sector, every company
we possibly can. But we're extremely patient around what we ultimately decide to do.
And balancing those two is really difficult. It's an incredible context to which no differently than
me walking out of a board meeting of a company that I started myself towards going into a board
meeting of a company that I was just lucky enough to invest in. But I think the balance between those
two is a thing that is enabled us to get to where we are today. How do you balance, as the firm has
grown, doing an investment like you just did in Stripe, which is an iconic round, maybe $2 billion
into a single company, single round, obviously iconic business, with the next check perhaps being
a $2 million seed check into a company, which on a $15 billion asset base, it's just hard.
The $2 billion checks move the needle no matter who you are. How do you reconcile those things?
Well, actually, it's pretty easy for us because we're equally as concentrated in people and ideas
at the early stages as much as we are at the later stages. And that doesn't necessarily mean
magnitude of capital. That means emotional commitment and concentration. We don't do a lot,
but when we do it, we are deeply invested and deeply focused on making sure that we're the best
possible partners to those that we work with. Our view is a lot of people have, and we understand
and respect the strategy they've taken of a very indexed oriented approach to our industry,
we don't believe in optionality. I think optionality around processes and opportunities to invest
is a great thing. But I think optionality around deployment of capital is really inappropriate,
especially when founders have a portfolio of one. So when we ultimately decide to invest,
we are all in, irrespective of whether or not it's a $5 million investment in a series A or a CDL,
or whether or not it's a multi-billion dollar investment in a later stage company.
When we do it, we're there, we're fully in. I asked earlier about how you think about product
market fit for an investing firm with a long horizon. And you mentioned also that you think of
thrives of business, your customers, the founder. How do you think founders, especially these
great ones, make decisions on who to partner with? Everyone's money's green. And the industry that
you're investing in, even though you were very early to it, is way more institutionalized. So
there's just more committed capital flowing around. There's a lot more choices. What in your
experience really drives the decision making process for founders for who to partner with,
especially with such a large supply of options now? I think it's very hard for founders because
I think in many respects, everyone says the same things. And sometimes those are the same things.
And sometimes it does the same things. I don't think it's possible for any two individuals to
actually do the same thing. But I think the mentality can be right. In addition to that,
I think really important decisions get made very quickly. And I think people ultimately end up
in a bad position on both sides when that happens. It could just be that that's the answer, right?
That founders like any customer said talk and reputations are built slowly and via word of mouth.
But it's hard for me to understand how incredibly quiet Thrive is. If you're a founder, you can't go
watch a bunch of stuff, listen to a bunch of stuff, read a bunch of stuff, and know who Thrive is.
But you go through the list of companies that you've invested in, and it's the who's who of
this generation's technology businesses, not everyone, but a lot. And that has to happen somehow.
It gets me curious. We always want to win through substance. And we have found that
whenever we're competing in a process, we want to have those that we've worked with in the past
speak about who we are and what our values are and what we stand for. I think there are many
extraordinary firms in the world that do very different things and have very different mindsets.
And founders might want one versus another. I think it's really extraordinary when I have
a ton of admiration for lots of firms. I spoke about interest in Horowitz. I have a ton of respect
for Sequoia in particular for two reasons or three reasons. The first is they've maintained
a culture for almost 50 years, which is an aspiration of ours. I think we care so much about our culture,
but the fact that they've been able to maintain one for such a lowering period of time is extraordinary.
The second thing is they've also been deeply committed to talent, which I think is our ethos
as well. And the third thing I think that they have the advantage on right now is founders still
want to tell their parents that they took money from Sequoia. So that's the dream. What a fascinating
trio, which is so interesting to me because they are so big now. Andry since done this so well,
too, these are huge, enormous firms. And yet still, that is the brand and the reputation.
It's remarkable. What's the most unusual interest of yours that you feel pulled back into over and
over again? Is there anything unusual that you feel odd in how much you return to it over and
over again relative to your peers? Just as a general area of interest. As an individual, I'm
very inspired by the arts. I love photography. I love music. I love interior design. I'm very
inspired by visual creations, which I think in many respects are representations of things that
people dreamed into the world that others didn't necessarily think could exist. So I think in many
respects, there are tons of parallels with the businesses that we invest in. You have turned me
on with a couple others, Sarah Federer is the other person that's done this for me to the work
of James Terrell and the idea of installation art, more generally speaking. What is interesting
to you about that kind of art? James Terrell, for me, is an amazing example of just seeing the
world differently than the rest. His ability to kind of manipulate something that we all have in
our lives, which is light, and just use it in such a different way than other people do to create a
unique and transformational experience is really powerful. So I think for me, there are two things
that resonate a lot. The first is his ability to kind of see something that should be obvious to
other people, but just use it in a very, very, very different way. And I think there's something
about just being present in the world. It's a record-urban thing again, seeing something
that other people don't notice. Yeah, I think there's just this dynamic where we're all living
our lives, but if you actually pay attention, the most beautiful things can be right in front of you.
For the first pillar. I think that is something that's really powerful with Terrell. I also think
Terrell is also among the artists that I enjoy the most because, whether it be Terrell or Donald
Judd or Solowitt, they're visual in terms of the ways in which they created the art, but
they don't actually create it themselves. It's more of a scientific problem or a mathematical
problem that they're trying to solve and ultimately someone constructs it for them. I don't know. I
love music, but I don't know how to play an instrument. I love art. I've tried to learn how to paint. I'm
not particularly good. I love technology, but I'm a terrible coder. So maybe my love for Terrell
is more coming from the fact that someone who's visual but has others create for him just being
inspiration for me. Raised is an interesting question, which is artists literally are manifesting
the thing in their brain and takes slack. A company you obviously know incredibly well was
itself a pivot, the thing that Stewart was imagining was a game, and then it became something very
different. How do you think about vision as a key ingredient for founders given the number of
companies that have started as one thing and become something very successfully but very
different? Does vision matter? I think it's the most important aspect of what enables companies
to realize their full potential. I think the ability to inspire and motivate is just as important as
the ability to operate and hire and build. Every company is centered around a mission, and that
mission has to have a vision in order to determine the north star. And those that dream have the
capacity to motivate their people to ultimately have something that has yet to exist and to be
created. What have you learned about the conversation and negotiation with founders for late-stage
investments where pencils can be out, math can be done, there's more to tether. I suspect you've
gotten very good at having the conversation with the founders so that you end up in a
positive someplace where they're happy, you're happy, you're partners. And maybe if there's also
been things you've learned not to do, I'm just curious about that muscle and that process. First
and foremost, I remember every single person that has ever passed on Thrive, and I remember every
single person that's ever passed on Oscar and how they did it. So before we get to what it's like
to actually have a negotiation with a founder, how you handle the conversation when you ultimately
do not invest, it's just as important as the conversation that you have when you do invest.
Rejection is hard. I've experienced it so many times in my life, and you want that rejection to
be an experience that you can learn from. So the best passes that I've ever received with Thrive
have been when people said, Josh, we really think that there's a lot of really positive
attributes around what the firm is doing. This is our risk section. Let's talk in a couple of years.
And that happened obviously in the early days when most people passed on us and we took that
risk section and we tried our best to learn from it and grow from it. With Oscar, it was the people
who sent us their work and took us through the things that they thought that we needed to do to
get better. So we try our best to do that, knowing that obviously, given a large portion of our
conversation has been focused on concentration, that a large portion of our conversations are
us saying no. That being said, when you do a deal, when you're a founder, the best conversations are
when they're not 0M, you want both sides to win. And obviously, the best deals are the ones where
both people feel like they're giving a little something. In the construct of Stripe, the company
needs to raise a large amount of capital. But also, John and Patrick were so focused on making sure
that their employee base felt deeply respected. What do you make of our industry, the investing
industry overall right now in 2023? Are there things that surprise you? Are there things that
excite you that turn you off? I'm just really curious as someone that's not been in this a while,
what the industry itself feels like to you in this environment.
So a couple of things. One is, I don't know if we spoke about this before, but
one of the core insights when we started Thrive was the perceived versus reward associated with the
asset class was very different than the actual reward. So in many respects, my view when Thrive
got started was venture as a term was mislabeled. And the idea that someone could build and invest
early was obvious, but the idea that someone could invest at later stages as a venture firm was
seen as deeply unconventional. I think in 2021, there was an idea that given the amount of value
that was created over the last decade, the cost of capital associated with the industry should
come down. And Thrive is not perfect in terms of everything that we did. But in many respects,
my view was the perceived versus reward was very different than the actual reward in the
opposite direction. And going back to the frameworks that have driven our success so far,
a small amount of companies create the most value and that value compounds on a very long
period of time. So the idea that there were so many companies that were raising so much capital
over such short periods of time, where the progress associated with the companies and their products
and their customer traction were not necessarily correlated with their valuations. The more correlated
around the markets that they had the opportunity to ultimately penetrate over time was very destructive.
Now, I've always been of the that investors don't really know what investors want. And I know we've
spoken a lot about independent thought, but there was a moment where investors were telling
companies to grow at all costs. And there are moments now where investors are telling companies
to become profitable at all costs. And our view is that each company is an entirely different
conversation. And every single individual company has to think about what is the best
thing for them. There are no generalizations in life, in my opinion. I mean, maybe be kind,
maybe be good. But I think when it comes to a company, the idea of there being a generalization
that applies to our existing portfolios, deeply flawed. So we have always tried our best to
say to companies. And I think this is very counter to most folks right now is let's actually think
about your business as a totally independent entity and think about what is best for you in
order to achieve profitable growth over a very long period of time. And I think that has been the
right approach. Going back to what I spoke about earlier, we have tried our best as people
have been focused on the volatility of the market to say, what are the things that we think are
most special in the world and lean into them? We believe in the compounding tailwinds of technology
and the power of innovation. We also believe that there's a huge difference between being
an optimist and being delusional. I think we're very pragmatic and rational about our approach on
these things, but we have to pick correctly. It feels like a period of time with so much change,
just in the same way that you started in a period for the world was hard. The hangover from the
financial crisis serious, I remember it, I started the micro at the same time as you,
and it took years to feel our way through that. And what you did at the time was fairly contrarian.
And it's exciting to think about that looking forward, certainly for me. Other aspects of Thrive's
story that we haven't talked about, that you feel our most formative or most important for
someone from the outside and be trying to understand the business.
I think the thing that I would want people to understand is that every single person who is at
the firm has been deeply impactful to the firm's success. Every single person who comes in the
future will be deeply impactful to our success in the future. Thrive is a company and we think
about excellence across our entire organization. And different people have pushed us in different
directions over different periods of time. For example, I started Oscar, but my partner,
Kareem, has started three healthcare businesses that are worth the billion dollars plus. In my
view, he is the single best healthcare investor in the world, taking a kernel of exposure and
making us a leading firm in a sector is something that I'm very proud of. Vince has pushed us
into software and infrastructure in a very meaningful way alongside Philip and Avery.
Garov has pushed us into financial services in a very meaningful way.
Nabil has built out our portfolio impact team that has enabled us to actually unbundle the
investor and be this value added partner. We didn't have a data science team a couple years ago and
now 10% of organization is focused on building products for ourselves and our companies.
What's the point of something like that? Is it telemetry? Well, I think my framework has always
been what is thrive? Thrive is people, culture, capital, process, and data. The four things prior
are mostly always going to be art and some element of science. But if you can actually
think about an investment firm as effectively a proprietary data asset, what could you do with
that data that would enable you to actually make the process better, make the culture better,
enable you to deploy the capital much more efficiently. And we have seen our capacity to make better
decisions, have a more, I would say, informed perspective and prepared mind as a result of some
of the things that we're seeing and then also be a much more meaningful partner to our founders as
a result. So that could be information pushed to you on the investing team that you wouldn't have
found for your own devices. It could be reporting or telemetry for a founder on their industry.
It doesn't matter. It's custom in each situation, but you need a data store to be able to do any of
that stuff. Yes. And we built a lot of products for ourselves to help us have a more informed
perspective on everything that we're doing. If you were giving an interview for a documentary
about Kareem and how he's done this multiple times, built businesses that have gone on to be very,
very large, how would you describe that? What's he doing? What's going on to make that possible,
not just once, but multiple times with him in particular? I think there are two types of
investors that currently exist in the healthcare ecosystem. There are those that understand the
healthcare industry. And there are those that understand technology. There are very few people
that understand both. And I think that's what makes Kareem so special. It's his deep understanding
of the industry. He was pre-med, his father's doctor. He always thought he wanted to be a doctor
until he got to school and he ended up getting a summer internship at Blackstone and got exposed
to the world of finance. But I think his love and appreciation for technology and software and his
ability to combine those two in such an interesting way is what has made him so unique as he's built
in that industry. I think very similarly for others at the firm, their ability to understand
the real world, but also kind of apply the lessons and insights that we have around the
traditional technology industry is what has made us ultimately be successful.
If you were investing, let's say I say you got to shut down Thrive, and the only thing you're
allowed to do is invest in other investment firms. And you listed it amazing, was the people that
have been a part of the Thrive story in one way or another, whether it's KKR. There's lots of
very successful Blackstone fascinating investment firms. How do you think you would approach that
challenge? What would you look for? What would you care about? Firms that have independent thought
don't need validation from the outside world are both pragmatic, but also contrarian and not
distracted. Say more about distraction. You've so cultivated a lack of distraction that word
hasn't come up yet. People always talk about this concept of the need for a common enemy.
In order to be successful, and my view has always been the way to be the best version of
yourself is to only compete with yourself. And the way in which you can do that and realize your
full potential is if you're entirely focused. And I think there's something to be said for the
difference between calming your mind and being distracted. I heard a great line the other day.
This woman said to me, she grew up on a farm and she always said to her mother that she was bored
and her mother responded to her while being bored is the best way to figure out what to do.
So I think there's a difference between calming your mind. I actually think everyone who is a
professional in some respects needs to take care of their mind and rest their mind. Tom Brady does
physical therapy after a game need to erase the whiteboard. But I think the idea of being distracted
by those rings going back to the inner ring is the thing that I think needs to be avoided the most.
What does a Sabbath do for you? Every Friday night, I shut off my phone.
Carly, myself, my son, Levi are together. We are entirely present. I work a very intensive
schedule and my wife does as well what she does is so inspiring to me. But the ability to
almost shut off the world and just be together with each other is something that we look forward
to every week. It's the greatest thing we could ever imagine. So simple. The whole world would be
better if they had some version of it. Creating simplicity is complex. I think this has been so
interesting for me to learn from you how to take a few simple ideas and take them very seriously
as it relates to building an investing franchise. And I know that you hate this version where you're
the one answering the questions, not asking them. But I really appreciate your willingness to do it
because so many people listening are aspirational investors or building an investing franchise or
building a business. And I think our conversation has been for me and hopefully for everyone else.
Just a really good reminder that it's simple things that work. But you have to take them very
seriously, which you've done with Thrive. And I really appreciate you doing this with me. And
I know this will probably be the only one of these that you do for maybe another 10 years. So
we'll do another one when we're a little bit older and our kids are growing up or something. But
I appreciate your time today. I think you know I have a traditional final question that I ask of
everybody. What is the kindest thing that anyone's ever done for you? It's actually a crazy story.
When I was in high school, I went to a concert in New York City. So I traveled in from where I grew
up in small town in Livingston, New Jersey. My mom's going to hate when she hears the story.
And I was walking towards Rosen Ballroom where the concert was. And I got held up at Nightpoint.
And the person took my tickets. And I was stunned and shocked. And about 10 minutes later,
someone came up to me and said to me, "Hey, I just saw what happened from a distance.
I have an extra ticket." And here's that ticket. And it was really, really, really stunning for me.
Just to go through that experience. And about three years later, since I'm a little kid,
I've always been obsessed with basketball. I've always tried to go to the NBA Draft to all start
weekend. I love watching games. And one year, someone took me to the NBA Draft and I sat in my seat.
And I look over to my left and the person who I had never seen since who gave me that ticket
was sitting right next to me. Wow. And he was an artist. His name's Adam Port. And he actually
is an artist that has painted pictures of famous NBA players. And he just saw me one day getting
robbed and decided to do a generous thing. And I ended up sitting next to him. And I was so stunned
by actually having the capacity to meet him and be able to actually think him because
that lesson for me at that moment in time was a really powerful thing. You see someone down,
like do whatever you can to support them through different moments in my life. I've been down. And
those that have bear hugged me at different moments in my life are the ones that I appreciate
and love the most. He gave me his business card and it has sat on my desk for the last 10, 11 years
of my life. So it's inner rings and that guy's business card. Yeah. Amazing. To close on a
light note, we both love basketball. Yeah. That's out of business investing something we're both
deeply in love with for sure. Why was it good that you could not dunk until after high school?
So I played basketball in high school. And I started, I'm six, three now, I started my freshman
year at five, three. And I was constantly growing throughout high school. When I went to college,
I played a lot of pick up in the gym. And the summer after my freshman year, my, I was playing
with a bunch of friends and I dunked on one of them. And Patrick loves a story. My father
joked with me in that moment. He goes, I'm so glad you couldn't dunk in high school. And I said,
what do you mean? That would have been amazing. I was terrible. I was a basketball player in high
school. And he goes, well, if you would have dunked, you probably would have been a lot cooler than
you are. And if you're a lot cooler than you were, you probably wouldn't have studied as much as you
studied. And if you didn't study as much as you studied, you probably wouldn't be where you are
today. So I still wish I would have been able to dunk in high school. As a fellow late bloomer,
I love that story. And I think it's the perfect place to close. Josh, thank you so much for doing
this. Thank you, Patrick. If you enjoyed this episode, visit join colossus.com where you'll find
every episode of this podcast complete with hand edited transcripts. You can also subscribe to
Colossus review, our quarterly print digital and private audio publication featuring in-depth
profiles of the founders, investors, and companies that we admire most.
Learn more at joinclossus.com/subscribe.
[Music]


