
As an investor, I'm always on the lookout for tools that can truly transform the way
that we work as a business.
AlphaSense has completely transformed the research process with cutting-edge AI technology
and a vast collection of top-tier, reliable business content.
Since I started using it, it's been a game changer for my market research.
I now rely on AlphaSense daily to uncover insights and make smarter decisions.
With the recent acquisition of Teagus, AlphaSense continues to be a best-in-class research
platform delivering even more powerful tools to help users make informed decisions faster.
What truly sets AlphaSense apart is its cutting-edge AI.
Imagine completing your research five to ten times faster, with search that delivers
the most relevant results, helping you make high-conviction decisions with confidence.
AlphaSense provides access to over 300 million premium documents, including company filings,
earnings reports, press releases, and more from public and private companies.
You can even upload and manage your own proprietary documents for seamless integration.
With over 10,000 premium content sources and top broker research from firms like Goldman
Sachs and Morgan Stanley, AlphaSense gives you the tools to make high-conviction decisions
with confidence.
Here's the best part.
Invest like the best listeners can get a free trial now.
Just head to alpha-sense.com/invest and experience firsthand how AlphaSense and Teagus help you
make smarter decisions faster.
Trust me, once you try, you'll see why it is an essential tool for market research.
Two fun facts about our newest sponsorship partner, Ramp.
First, they are the fastest-growing FinTech company in history, reaching a level of revenue
in five years that I can't quote exactly, but is eyebrow-raising.
Second, they are backed by more of my favorite past guests, at least 16 of them when I counted.
Then probably any other company that I'm aware of, a list that includes Ravi Gupta at
Sequoia, Josh Kushner at Thrive, Keith Reboi at Founders Fund, and Coastal Ventures, Patrick
and John Collison, Michael Ovett, Brad Gerstner, the list goes on and on.
These facts demand the question, why?
Having been personally obsessed with the great businesses through history, one clear lesson
is that the best of them are run by disciplined operators.
These operators manage costs with incredible detail and they are constantly thinking about
how they can reinvest every dollar and every hour back into their business.
This is Ramp's mission to help companies manage their spend in a way that reduces expenses
and frees up time for teams to work on more valuable projects.
Based on expenses, the average American business has a profit margin of 7.7%.
This means saving 1% on costs is the equivalent of making 13% more revenue.
The average Ramp customer is able to save 5% on their expenses each year.
Of course, every entrepreneur is looking for ways to grow revenue by 50%.
They should just as seriously seek to save 5% on their expenses.
Second, on time, unnecessary complexity is why most finance teams spend 80% of their
time doing operational work and only about 20% of their time on strategic work.
Ramp makes spend management very simple by handling your company's expenses, travel,
bill payments, vendor relationships and even accounting.
It's notable that some of the best in class businesses today, companies like Airbnb,
Andrew and Shopify and investors like Sequoia Capital and Vista Equity are all using Ramp
to manage their spend.
They use it to spend less, they use it to automate tedious financial processes and they
use it to reinvest save dollars and hours into growth.
At both Colossus and Positive Sum, my businesses, we've used Ramp for years now for these exact
reasons.
Go to ramp.com/invest to sign up for free and get a $250 welcome bonus.
That's R-A-M-P dot com slash invest.
Hello and welcome everyone.
I'm Patrick O'Shaughnessy and this is Invest Like the Best.
This show is an open-ended exploration of markets, ideas, stories and strategies that
will help you better invest both your time and your money.
Invest Like the Best is part of the Colossus family of podcasts and you can access all
our podcasts including edited transcripts, show notes and other resources to keep learning
at joincolossus.com.
Patrick O'Shaughnessy is the CEO of Positive Sum.
All opinions expressed by Patrick and podcast guests are solely their own opinions and
do not reflect the opinion of Positive Sum.
This podcast is for informational purposes only and should not be relied upon as a basis
for investment decisions.
Clients of Positive Sum may maintain positions and the security is discussed in this podcast.
To learn more, visit psum.vc.
My guest today is Mickey Malka.
Mickey is the founder of Rivet Capital, one of Fintech's most influential investing firms.
Rivet's mission is to change the world of finance through financial innovation rather
than through financial engineering.
Through Rivet, Mickey is back transformative companies like Coinbase, Robinhood and Newbank
from their earliest days.
We discuss his perspective on Fintech's evolution, including his provocative declaration that
Fintech is dead and explore his theory of the grit, how knowledge, wealth and power are
being transformed by technology.
We also dive into his deep interest in digital art, which he sees as an early indication
of broader cultural and technological shifts.
He'll soon hear how he is taking a truly generative approach on all fronts.
A final note from me, the world just needs more people like Mickey.
He's one of the kindest, most alive people that I've met in this business.
There just aren't many people like him.
Please enjoy this in-depth conversation with Mickey Malka.
Mickey, I know this is a hard question, but I'm going to ask it anyway.
I want to just have you describe what Rivet is.
It's one of these firms that's, if you know, you know, type firm, but there's basically
no information of any kind about Rivet anywhere.
You can learn if you ask lots of great founders out there, but that's kind of how the word
on Rivet has spread.
It's through founders, not through normal channels.
Can you just describe what it is today and what it was when it started will ask about
the origin story?
But I know it's a hard question to answer because it's an amorphous entity, but what
is Rivet to you?
How would you describe it?
That's the hardest question I think you're going to ask me today, and to probably the
next one.
We are a bunch of rebels.
Let's start there.
From an inception, we always use Star Wars as our motive and our decks and our presentations,
and we're a bunch of rebels, and the way that we describe it is, wherever the status
school grows bloated, wherever there's not enough innovation, wherever there's nothing
new that benefits the customer, you're going to find us there as rebels, trying to find
the rebels who are going to change the status school, and that's who we are.
And there's no bigger status school in the last 20 years than financial services.
And that's where we started.
It wasn't innovating, it wasn't bringing new services to the customers, it wasn't bringing
anything new to the businesses, and we were like, this cannot be.
Where are the people that are going to change this?
So we dedicated the first decade of our lives just to do that.
How did it start?
What was the first couple months?
Who did you raise money from?
How much did you raise?
How did you think about it?
The firm is structured in a very unique way, and I know you've been super intentional about
the structure of the firm dictating what it will then do.
What was the first moments like?
The first were thinking, if we're going to be rebels, what's the right structure to be
a rebel?
We spent like a year figuring out, hey, it's a fun, the right structure, really?
Is that rebel enough?
That feels like cookie cutter, and having a fun, we struggle with the structure, and
we say, you know what?
Let's start here, and we'll figure it out where it goes in the future.
And that was in 2012.
And then we raised the money from a bunch of entrepreneurs that had known me, because
I was an entrepreneur for a long time, and they were like, yeah, this guy seems like
he has an idea on what to do.
Let's give him some money.
It wasn't until a friend once told me, if you want to take this serious, you got to
go really think about institutional money also.
It wasn't obvious on day one.
Question on the institutional partners having been through this process myself.
I know that there's a wide range of types of people.
What attributes did you select for?
What kinds of institutions can back a rebel alliance?
Our first deck had more Star Wars analogies than anything.
I had no investor track record.
I had a bunch of records as an entrepreneur.
And so if the competition started by saying, but wait, who else is here, and what's your
track record?
And I will say, you know what?
This is not meant for you.
So they were looking at me and say, wow, you're willing to say that I'm like, yes, that's
who we are.
We say what we think.
So it took a while until we found the right people that understood and were confident
that if I had hired thousands of people in my life and I had fired thousands of people
in my life, we were going to be able to build a team that we were proud of.
Can we talk about the foundations of Ribbit and specifically the founding principles that
you've talked to me about before that make all this possible?
Because it seems that most investing firms, in order to raise money, define a strategy.
And then many times they've become enslaved to that strategy.
And Ribbit's been the total opposite.
The funds look so different from each other and we can walk through that history.
But it seems like they're really grounded in those core founding principles.
Can you describe each of them to us and how you came to them?
So in 2011, I was finishing my first startup with my co-founder, which we had done in all
together around the world in financial services, we're here in Silicon Valley.
And we decided that that one in particular called Lemon, I was the first wallet on the
App Store, it didn't need the two of us to be full-time CEO.
So we've played this role multiple times, so we agreed he'll be the CEO and I'll be
the chairman.
So I get to fire him.
Fun job to your co-founder.
And I spent the whole year just traveling the world and talking to everybody, all the
entrepreneurs that we have met or people that we have interacted with or work with.
And one thing was clear, I didn't want to be a VC and I didn't want to be called an
investor, because until then, the whole life was entrepreneurial.
I had started four companies, I had lived in four different countries, all of these things.
And yet, I think the foundational mindset was one of saying, where is the passion driving
you and where can you be the best version of yourself?
So working through that, we wrote some commandments of life on how we wanted to operate.
I don't want to be voxed, as somebody who didn't grow up in America, one of the things
that I've learned is that anybody here has a label, they put labels on you.
You went to this school, you went to this career, you are a good student, you are a
good math.
And I did not grow up like that, we had no labels.
It was fun and social and it was a lot more melting pot kind of Latin American vibe than
it had been labels.
So the first rule for me was no labels, and hence why from day one, some of the principles
were not a venture firm, that's why it was called River Capital, not River Ventures or
whatever.
I did not know if we were going to be early stage investor or late stage investor or
public investor, actually in 2012 when we started, I think we were the only fund that
in their documents allowed for buying crypto.
No one else could do it because they didn't have a permission to do it.
We could, we could do anything.
We had a structure like that.
I looked around, city-combining around the world to all these firms, and they behaved
like firms.
They were a bunch of partners working together, but were they truly working together?
Or they all together because combined they can do other stuff that they couldn't do
by themselves.
Do they really love each other, were they really engaged in a different way?
So for us it was much more about, let's build a company.
What happens to be in the business of the growing capital?
Let's behave like a startup.
Let's build systems.
Let's open anybody in River can read anybody else's inbox, email from day one.
Everybody at River has access to the same data.
When you align and as an entrepreneur, anytime you start a company, you put a lot of your
set equity and your capital equity to your startup because you fund it.
So when we did that and put a lot of bunch of my capital into our first fund, we aligned
incentives.
The incentive structure of charging fees just to manage capital, to me seemed completely
broken.
It did in a line, long term, with your partners the same way.
So we changed that.
We had a budget system, anybody that joins a team, no matter when they join, they have
retroactive looking because you have just one team.
So no matter if you join us in 2023 or 2015, you will have exposure to all of it.
So it's a bunch of rules around what to invest in, what stage, how do you want to be known.
We have no brand.
People don't find, there's barely a website, you're going to even contact us on the website.
So all of those things were by design from the beginning, they were not accidents.
Some of them were, but a lot of them were by design.
Maybe say a little bit about the first fund or two and what you were seeing and what you
were doing because you were extremely early to this big world trend, both crypto and fintech.
What did you see in the world that demanded your interest in these solutions that you
then backed?
So we had these thesis in back then, super early.
We walked back a few years before that, 2009, financial crisis, '08 or '09, financial crisis.
The trust for the incumbent brands or for established brands goes to negative.
Nobody trusts them, nobody likes them, nobody feels identified with them.
They get overly regulated and what happens is their innovation disappears.
And in the late '90s and early 2000s, they were building this entire tech stack to run
their back ends because before then they were paper.
They walked to a bank branch in the '90s who was still paper-based, completely paper-based.
So they had modernized the back end but '08 or '09 came in a moment where they never built
the last mile.
And when the app store shows up in 2010, '11, it's a perfect storm of a mobile device with
an app store which allows you to compete as a new channel to acquire attention and customers
that the incumbents were way behind on.
And that infrastructure that they had built in the '90s and 2000s was good enough to find
bridges to connect to it and offer the last mile.
So our whole thesis in the early days was, let's go around the world, finding the teams
and the companies that are building that last mile that will touch consumers and businesses
with financial services.
The crypto angle came as somebody who grew up in Venezuela, as somebody who experienced
over max inflation of triple digits in any given year in your teenagers, as somebody
who, as my first startup, I was 17, in financial services in Venezuela and when I was 20 or
21, half of the banking system collapsed and disappeared, as somebody who saw the dollars
evaluate and saw what happened in Argentina and was in Argentina doing business when they
got elito happened, when they took the peso out of the peg of the one to one or the reality
and proceed because I also was there, I didn't need to go to school.
I already had a life lesson on macro and governments and currencies, more than people having a
lifetime.
So when we saw Bitcoin early 2011 before even starting Rivet, it was super obvious that
this was something really big.
So the first business is there that we were investing in those early films where who's
going to connect the fiat rails to the crypto rails and one of the first ones was Coinbase
and Brian and Fred at that team there and so we did all of these things that were in the
early days of connecting the last mile of financial services to consumers and businesses.
You're probably the most famous private FinTech investor and yet last year you told the world
that would listen to you that FinTech maybe was dead.
Can you explain just that moment in time and what led you to say that?
We had a slide in our annual meeting, it had this seminary and it said FinTech and it had
a Tom and it said FinTech 2012 to 2023 and it was dead and you could see people's faces
were like, what is this team just telling me?
And the reality is I think to play an infinite game, to play a game that you get to reinvent
yourself, to play a game that you enjoy, there's no winning or losing and once you're ahead
you have to change the rules of the game so you fall behind and we were seeing slowly
and slowly that there was every other day somebody else was trying to do something else
in the same space and we look at each other and said, what is this?
Should we keep doing this or should we just say, you know what, it's dead, it's done.
We didn't need to get started in this last 12 years, did it?
So the nice thing about our mentality is to say, yes, we were ahead for a long, long time
but let's change the rules of the game so we fall behind again because the game is better
play when you're trying to get ahead.
Not when you are ahead and trying to avoid people from being ahead of you.
So changing the rules is the best thing in life.
It's so interesting that you're allowed to range around public businesses, private, late
stage, early stage, how do you know where to focus at any given point in time as you
think across all the funds which themselves have been so different and when is it more
common for a very late stage, let's say higher valuation opportunity to get you more excited
than an earlier stage one that by definition is a lower price, maybe a higher potential
upside, what draws you around that range that you're allowed to move through?
I think it's this combination of finding amazing people that you can see through their soul,
through their motivation and you can see that they will do whatever it takes to win and
to build that mission that they find themselves to.
At the beginning when you started back in them super early, you don't know.
You just don't know but you try to see signals and follow through them.
Before we said to our investors, hey, FinTech is dead, it didn't come out of the blue.
A year before or 18 months before, we presented this pyramid and said there's 3,000 companies
I got back in the last decade in financial services around the world.
We think there's 50 winners, there'll be 50 companies that are going to compound for
the next 15 years.
They have asymmetric brand, knowledge, they know how to use time, people, they know how
to deploy capital in ways that they will just be compounders for a very long time.
The kind of services that the virtual hotel with the world would love to have.
Which in many ways, if you look back at Berkshire, that's what they did in the 70s and 80s when
they started to buy American Express and GEICO and the Wells Fargo's.
They looked at compounders when it was not obvious that they were going to compound for
that long and they hit the macro right.
And then we said there'll be 200 companies that own an asset, a license, a software, a
customer base, a product that will be acquired by this compounder.
So they'll be taken out one way or the other through M&A.
There was only another 500 companies that are going to get to profitability because liquidity
was drying up, the market was starting to get out of favor for this space, moving more
to AI.
And those companies will get profitable and they will trade at a multiple of earnings
and just do fine and private equities will buy them or they'll live in a cash flow business.
And there was a 1,500 that should not exist.
And they will disappear over the next number of years.
So that thesis put all of our attention to look at, all right, who are the compounders?
Are they public?
Are they private?
Are they both?
Do we know which market who?
And we spend over a year and a half just studying that and placing bets all over the world around
it.
What's an example of one, of a compounder, just to make it bring it to life?
The first one that comes to mind is probably Robin Hood.
I'm on the board, so I've got to be careful with what I said.
But it's a company that every time they have time, the millennial customer in a way that
they're growing with them.
So think about it, Vlad and Beiju started a company when they're 26.
They're all these are the millennials.
They're now 37, 38, they're the oldest, probably the millions are 40, exactly they're 40.
So they've time and they started to offer the first trading account when you need one,
when no one gave you one.
And now they add a retirement because guess what?
The generation has kids and they're thinking about it and they're adding all of these products
that they have a chance to wake up in 20 years and be the Schwab of that generation.
Because they grew with their customers for a very long time.
That power of compound in generation wise doesn't happen overnight.
It takes a long time to build, but you can see where they're going and they're growing
with their generation.
And every generation, if you look in history, has one of those or at least one of those.
Very few will cover very generations, but at least there's one winner per generation.
E-Trade had that chance for my generation.
The E-Trade got into mortgages too early with a very weak balance sheet and blew up and
they became a sleepy company.
They had a window.
They lost it because they used their capital base wrongly.
I think Robin Hood is doing a much better job.
Vlad told me this story and it's an incredible story.
And it speaks to the sort of relationship that Ribbit has with its companies and the founders
that it backs.
Can you tell the story of that crucible moment when things were going sideways for Oppenhood
and you were a huge part of getting them through that?
Yeah, that January of 2021.
I think the story starts nine months before.
There was a moment in April of May where lockdowns were happening and where their growth, because
people were starting to trade and opening accounts and getting into the markets because
of all the subsidies and incentives, that their system went down for two days or one
day of trading.
Because they collapsed.
They were just hoping to do many accounts.
And then they were in remote.
It was bad.
And they had a lot of bad press.
And remember having a call with Vlad that afternoon and saying, hey, is this going to
happen against us?
I don't think so.
I think we have a solution.
Okay.
You're growing way too fast.
What else do we need to?
We always think about this framework, about brand, how do you communicate, about people,
how do you talk to them, about how do you measure time and capital?
So we went through it.
And in the capital piece, we said, how is your capital base right now to sustain this
level of growth?
It's fine.
But it could get stressed if this keeps going.
So nine months before, we started with Jason and Shif, which is part of the finance team.
Jason and CFO and Shif works with him and our team here.
And we put together a term sheet that had all the terms with brackets ready on what it
will take to put emergency capital in.
We thought about it.
We wrote it.
We discussed it.
We went back and forth.
We didn't need it.
And we both agreed it was perfect and we put it in a drawer.
We never knew why we could need it.
But it was a good thing to just know that we had it there.
So you fast forward to January and GameStop happens and all these meme stocks happen.
And the regulators come with this super crazy, unheard rule out of the blue saying you have
to put all your customers exposure that they have put on in the last day from your balance
sheet in collateral while the trade settles.
It's unheard of.
So the request was for $3 billion at five in the morning before market opens.
Exactly.
It's insane.
So I get the phone call and Vlad tells me this, I'm like, no, does this mean no, no,
you go back and you say, no, that's crazy.
That's unheard of.
They're doing the math wrong.
This cannot be.
I mean, the customer's money was in the bank, but you can attach it is their customer's
money and you're going to get to the day of settlement.
So understanding this business because I had built a brokerage dealer when I was 17, I
built an online broker leader, we understood everybody here understands the business model.
So we knew there was no capital risk.
It was all requirement of some liquidity risk.
There was no liquidity risk.
It was capital constraints.
So he calls me back and says, we're going to talk to them, but I need the money.
So I said, okay, give me half an hour, give me an hour.
Then I wake up the CEO of Silicon Valley Bank back then, Greg Becker.
And I said, have I ever asked you a favor from you and says, yes, once and he was very
painful.
And his favor was helping Coinbase get bank accounts in 2013 because no one will open
that account to them.
Interesting.
And it was the first bank account that Coinbase had for the first three years.
I said, well, I need one.
And he says, what's up, he says, I need to overdraft every line that River has for $500
million.
And he says, what?
By when?
I said by nine in the morning.
And he says, what happened?
So I explained what happened.
He said, let me call my team.
And our team here, we were multitasking with Robin Hood team on the term sheet.
We already had it done.
We were just feeding the brackets.
And at the same time, talking to Silicon Valley Bank, defining how to do this.
And by their credit, by nine during the morning, we were wiring $500 million to Robin Hood.
Wow.
And with that term sheet, a lot of capital follow later that day and later that weekend.
What an incredible day.
Where does that rank in the craziest days of your career?
You know, there are those days that you remember where you were.
Yeah, you can picture it.
You can picture everything.
I tend to walk when I'm on the phone when I speak.
I'm not good sitting.
I will tell you that that day I looked at my watch.
I had done a full marathon walking on the phone.
I had done almost 24 miles of walking in a room in an office just walking because I
need to think and react and call.
So I will never forget that day.
Thinking back on it, what lesson do you take from it?
What did you learn that you didn't know prior to going through that experience?
A lot of different aspects.
Number one, you always forget because I was there for a long time in that seat, it's
very lonely to be the CEO.
And to be there when that happens, that call doesn't happen if you are not spending time
for the previous seven or eight years since we were investors, getting to know him, getting
to know his family, getting to know his team, getting to know the company.
Because those solutions don't come out of the blue and if they do, they're mercenary
and they try to kill you.
Number one, number two is the mindset and the culture of being flexible, of taking asymmetric
informed risk.
When you understand the variables, you sleep better at night and you're comfortable with
your skin when you do it like that, when you truly, deeply know what you're doing versus
guessing.
We truly understood what we're doing.
We made one mistake in that day.
It didn't spend enough time understanding the brand consequences that would be so long
lasting for something that the entire market did wrong for one day.
And Robin Hood became the child star of the GameStop saga, to the point of having movies.
Now, there's a saying that says, "It doesn't matter what they say about you, as long as
they talk about you."
So you could take that argument.
But on the other hand, it took Vlad and Beige and it took the team and it took the market
almost two and a half years to get out of that PTSD.
And I think the biggest lesson is not that day.
The biggest lesson is being there for those next two and a half years as they navigate
out of that cycle.
I'd love to zoom to the present now.
You focused a lot on money in the first chapter of Rivet's existence and I think the grid
concept, the sort of global digital grid is something that you're focused very carefully
on today.
Can you just describe how you came to this idea and what you mean by it?
The grid is our version of the matrix, of that interconnectivity of different aspects
that make us who we are and how we transact and live in this world.
And you could think about the grid as, if you think about the internet, it's a grid
of itself.
It's a grid full of data and knowledge.
If you think about money and wealth, there's been grids for the last 50 years that allow
you to move money in real time, in delay time, in slow times.
You've got Visa networks, MasterCard, pet wires, ACH, UPI, PIX, they're all financial
design grids.
And then if you think about electricity, we think about the electric grid and we think
about towers and power meters and transformers and high voltage and all of those things.
What will happen if you actually thought that they were all combined into one?
They actually need each other.
There is no knowledge grid without power and there is no power without money.
And if you combine them all together and you think about them as just one single grid
that has to connect all of these things at the same time, it's quite rare and unique
because it hasn't happened in a long time.
These grids have been independent forever.
The financial grid has been independent for 5-600 years.
The internet, the data grid has been independent for 25 years.
The electric grid has been evolving for just 140 years.
But now we hit a moment in time when the three of them are converging in a way that we have
not seen in almost 500 years.
And the last time we've seen that was probably in the late 14-1500s with the printing press.
What people have to understand is that the printing press by itself was not the event.
The printing press, what it did was it allowed you to print all the knowledge that was written
three, 400 years, thousands of years before that.
The same way AI right now is the printing press moment, but it's only possible because
we have digitized every single piece of content for the last 30 years.
So what took hundreds of years of human scriptures to write history and contents back then for
the printing press to print has taken 35 years now or 40 years to digitize.
So now the AI engines can actually work on it and tokenize.
And so you have knowledge in ways that we've never have been tokenized.
You have money getting tokenized in ways that we've never think from crypto rails, token
existing rails to the way all of these aspects of smart contracts are working, and you have
electrons which are becoming more and more decentralized which are powering all of those
at the same time.
So this moment is probably the most interesting moment of the last 100 years in terms of the
opportunity sets that is going to come from it.
So when you take those things and you put them all together, you say, okay, what does it
mean?
But knowledge, money, and power are interconnected in ways that allows you to create use cases
that we've never seen.
AI agents are going to need access to money.
AI agents are going to need access to the crypto rails to do that.
So when we think about the grid as a concept, we look at it and say, oh my God, how do we
invest into this?
How do we think about if you buy that vision of the world, which we have bought ourselves
into, and then you start to ask a question, how do you deploy capital in it?
How do you think about the opportunity sets?
One is to come first, one is to come second.
What are the use cases that we should expect to see in 10 years, in five years, in one
year, that will show that this is going the right direction.
That's what we mean with the grid.
It's probably the most exciting opportunity set that I've seen in my life.
How do you dig into aspects of that?
I mean, it seems correct that everything you just laid out means that the world is already
different and changing so quickly around these dimensions.
How do you go from that insight down to tangible opportunity?
So I don't have a great answer.
There's no light bulb that I can tell you, hey, this is what we're doing.
But there's always a bad first, you go from the macro and then you look at the micro.
The most smaller aspect where I can see this happening, it's actually in art.
So to me artists are called artists because they're always ahead of society.
In many ways, artists always tell you where the world is going.
That's what they did.
The best sci-fi films when we were kids, shaped where we are going, Mars, the way we think
about lens.
I was talking to Matt Von the other day with the Kingsman, he was saying, I had the men
are lenses of my movies 10 years ago, all of these things, they'll tell you where these
things are going.
And if you follow art today and you see how they're using all of those aspects at the
same time, you're seeing artists using AI in different ways than the Silicon Valley
engineers are using it.
You're seeing how they are using NFTs as a method of distribution of ownership.
People will read on the media and if these are there, I think they're wrong.
When you really look at how the artists are using it, it's just different.
And the way they're using power and knowledge to express dynamic aspects of the world.
So if they can do it in art and they can express it visually like that, where will it take
off in businesses?
So then we sort of peel that and say, okay, what next?
What are the first variables that we need?
Do we need to figure out identity?
It's identity, a big component of society is solving a lot of these things because right
now we have ideas that we don't have an identity that allows us to connect our knowledge to
ourselves, ourselves to our money, ourselves to the grid.
So can we go and find stuff happening there?
Can we find the grid on financial services that will be decentralized?
What will be the way it will operate?
How will AI agents speak on your behalf and move money that we have and sign contracts?
Because a piece of an NFT, a piece of art that lies on an NFT, it's a smart contract.
Now imagine an AI agent using that on your behalf to do something.
What would it look like?
So when you start to go down that path, we try to figure it out.
What are the use cases?
It's funny they were having this conversation behind us is this piece of art that is radically
changing on-the-fly generative art based on what we're saying.
So it's so fun for me to have this conversation literally behind you.
I can see the topics visually on the screen in this remarkable way.
And it does feel sort of like seeing the future.
It does feel like everything is going to be a version of this that reflects back on the
individual and that ID digital identity is a key linchpin of that.
Why don't we have it yet?
What do we need it for?
Why is somebody that nails digital identity and what that means to you?
Is it so important for what might be possible in the future?
If you listen to open AI when they do their presentations or you listen to the earnings
calls of Visa, the payment rail network, or you listen to Mark Zuckerberg or Meta, anybody
is using an analogy called tokenization or tokenizing data so they can compute the tokenizing
payments or tokenizing other aspects.
I think tokenization is still misunderstood what it truly will become and if we don't
tokenize your identity, you will not be able to connect to all of these data sources.
You will just not be able.
It will mean a lot less.
The iPhone is a token instrument.
It has all of those identities sitting there but they don't talk to each other.
They're silo.
The iPhone allows you to use it as an identity, not as an ID.
What will that do?
It has the most knowledge that you need to do.
Will they win?
Will they be allowed to win?
Will they be somebody else?
Will they be multiple players?
So I think that if you don't have this, you're not going to be able to connect to the grid
of knowledge and to the grid of wealth in the same way because you will not be able to
augment yourself the best you can.
So that tokenization aspect is number one.
An approach to this, Patrick, is what happened in India?
We're very active in India.
We've been there for a decade.
We've done a lot of investments and when we got there in 2013 and '14, the first thing
that they built was the Adahar system.
It was an ID national system.
It was the first time I ever had a country and even at that scale, created fingerprint
to 1.2 billion people identification.
Like you needed just your finger to do anything in India.
When that was put together, their identity system now has OTP, it has multiple ways to
connect to it.
Then they turn on the payment grid called UPI and then they turn out the e-commerce grid
and then they turn out another grid in transactions between physical stores and B2B.
It is all logarithmically growing.
If they hadn't solved the first piece, it wouldn't have happened.
If you think all the way back to your original investments in the crypto ecosystem, you're
probably the earliest of the well-known investment firms that was involved in Bitcoin very early
and in tons of businesses in that space.
What has surprised you about how crypto has evolved based on your early expectations in
2011 and 2012?
How do you think about it today?
When we started doing this, people looked at me and said, "What are you doing?
The only people using this are drug lords and money laundering."
But yes, if you read history, money always starts with those use cases.
It always finds low hanging fruits but then over time, it just gets better and it gets
clean and bad actors move on to something else and I think that's what's happened here.
When it's blown away, if you asked me in 2011 or 2012, that in 2024, in the presidential
election of the USA, the topic of Bitcoin as a reserve for the country will be a debatable
aspect that candidates will be talking about.
I will say no F-way or that we had a listed ETF in the same year that the SEC Chairman
said, never, never, or that countries around the world have bought it as a reserve currency
in their balance sheets.
It's been only 14 years or 15.
It's insane.
I mean, gold has been here for thousands of years and yet this instrument, this technology,
this aspect is doing it in 15.
I can't imagine what the next 15 look like because it's just a more energized.
When I grew up, Venezuela, my mother gave me a little note that I wrote when I was eight
or nine, asking it to do ferry to give me dollars because I didn't trust my currency.
This is before the first maxied evaluation the country had in 30 years and when my kids
were losing their tooth, I was giving them bitcoins and it was $20.
My oldest kid has like two or three bitcoins just from her tooth and my other one has less
and the third one has much less.
For them it was automatic and you can see it.
So when you see young people understand concepts, our role as we get older is to see it through
the rise.
Use our knowledge but see it through the rise.
And that's what excites me about where this is going.
I think we're super early still.
Can you explain the importance and just like general concept of stable coins as you see
it and the role that they play in the world that's unfolding?
So growing up in the early 80s and mid 80s in Venezuela, we were having maxied evaluations.
Like the dollar was 4.3 boulevards to the dollar for like 30 years and by 1983 it started
to devalue by 1989, it was probably almost 10,000 boulevards to the $1.
So the only way you could save my family safe and there were doctors and middle class family
was we were buying American Express travel checks every week.
I walked my mom to the bank branch, we did a line and whatever boulevards we had in this
private practice, in the private practice we will buy travel checks and we will store
travel checks.
And once a year, once every couple years we'll go to the US and deposit them in a savings
and loan institution.
That's how we saved.
It's insane.
It's insane.
But what was it about the travel check that gave you the safety?
He had the American Express logo, he was dollars, he had a serial number, you kept it, you even
signed it both times, it was yours.
Stable coins are travel checks in today's world.
It is instant dollars anywhere in the world that you can control and move anytime at a
cost of zero.
And they're backed by, guess what, dollars?
In treasury is actually.
To the point that when you think about the size of stable coin market right now there's
almost $200 billion of stable coin, people are willing to forfeit making 4% or 4.5% of
yield in order to have it at least saved in dollars.
So imagine the opportunity cost where they're willing to sacrifice their yield just to be
able to have access to dollars.
So the use case of the stable coin, first it starts with consumers always.
All these cases start with consumers.
Consumers, real time, anywhere in the world, not for Americans, so we can get dollars on
our checking account, on our Robinhood account, on our Venmo, on our square cash.
We have dollars everywhere.
But if you're outside the US and you don't trust your currency or you want to diversify,
you will love stable coins just away.
And that was a low hanging fruit.
That was a minimum use case.
Funny enough, that's what it started.
They started because there were exchanges, crypto exchanges all over the world.
And it was so hard to get into the fiat rails and come back that somebody said, we're going
to put a stable coin and people can just move it around.
And that was the true case.
It was trading and moving dollars from one exchange to the other.
Consumers took it over.
What we're starting to see now is companies and treasury management of companies using
it.
It lowers their cost of capital, it's instant, there's less resistance, they have a lot
more control.
So the volume of stable coins movement on any given month is now you can graph it against
Visa networks payment volume and it's not crazy off anymore.
And that's only with 200 billion.
Imagine when there's a trillion dollar sitting there and two trillion.
It will get there.
What would this mean for Visa and MasterCard and some of the big important incumbent financial
institutions that have also been some of the best stocks to own with some of the best business
models?
I think for them is a problem and people like Visa led by Ryan understand this and they're
probably doing an amazing job on trying to be present in the crypto rails and make the
network connect efficiently and tokenize dollars and be part of this and make sure not
to lose that business time will tell.
But they get it.
He gets it.
But when you listen to the other extreme to Jamie Diamond saying, this is all evil.
This doesn't work.
So myself, I have our own JPM coin, I can do it in my own system.
Well, they're defending the castle, which they have to do.
It's their mandate.
He's doing what he needs to do.
There's nothing wrong with what he says.
But that's the battle between the established nation states or to the new network states.
So if we get we have this grid that's changing on the bottom layer above that is identity
and the incredible important role of data.
And then you've talked about compounders as well as a key area of focus for your investing
discipline today.
What else in that middle piece is most exciting to you?
What does it feel like the world needs in terms of technology or companies or products
or infrastructure?
You and I've talked about a couple of companies attacking the identity piece specifically.
What else has you most excited about like people that are serving the world's you know, technical
mass and giving it what it wants?
Oh, there's so much.
It's such an exciting time to be doing this.
I think there's an intersection between AI and crypto that is really exciting to us,
how those worlds collide, AI will need crypto, crypto definitely needs an eye to really build
the future because AI in many ways generates so much more content and so much more tokens
that you have to be able to regulate and tokenize and use and apply into smart contracts.
And there's no tech better than the crypto rails to do that.
That intersection is super powerful to us.
We're spending a lot of time trying to understand who and how and where and funny enough follow
the young minds.
A lot of the young engineers that started with crypto when they were in college are now moving
to AI because it's where the attention goes.
But both of them combined have the knowledge now and you're starting to see people that
understand both worlds and starting to interact in those.
What sort of thing could that unlock?
So imagine, let's say Tesla's robot axis, the car needs to interact with third parties.
The car needs to get paid, collect, define hours of work, all of those things.
Now their software can do it, but if they're going to interact with the third world, there's
nothing better than a blockchain smart contract to figure this out because at scale you cannot
do it any other way.
Can the car directly talk to the visa rails?
Not yet.
Is Visa trying to do this?
Yes.
They're using crypto rails to get it done.
That's why they're partnering with Solana and trying to tokenize tokens on Solana because
those networks are better than the traditional rails to do this.
Those other networks are pool networks, this is push.
So all of those aspects will come into this world in ways that we just don't imagine.
And so the way to think about it is we're going to need streaming data and money everywhere
to enable these automated services.
And it's the people that understand the two fields and the intersection of them that can
build things to solve that problem.
You said it better than me.
It's really exciting to think about.
One of the things that is amazing is this little napkin at your office.
It says the eye of the tiger on it.
You're holding up right now.
And it's sort of this cheat sheet for what to look for in people, I think.
I'm sure both people on your team, people you back, early stage, late stage, whatever.
And I'd love to apply some of the ideas actually to you.
You personally enter people and rivet itself to gain a even deeper understanding of you
and the business and what drives you.
And so the five that I want to ask about are energy, conviction, heart, dreams and obsession.
You say the energy of a scientist, the conviction of a missionary, the heart of a partner, the
dreams of an athlete and the obsession of an owner, just love this list.
At what point in rivets history, did you feel the need to inject that energy the most?
Every day.
This is a daily, daily thing.
In this world, if you believe that energy doesn't get created, it just gets transformed
and the amount of energy that exists is always the same, it just gets moved around.
The best way to capture as much as you can and recharge as much as you can is to have
a purpose and a mission that you are very identified with.
So when you meet people who are either a tiger and you're one, Patrick, you are an
either a tiger, somebody had to say, what do you say about Patrick?
There's a lot of things I would say, but you fit this bill.
You have that energy.
You have that conviction, the heart, you have the dream, you love to travel, you have the
conviction of a missionary because you love to travel.
So when you start to think like that, it's something that you don't have to give it on
a particular day versus another day, you give it every day and you don't live by these principles
or you don't meet somebody that does it, it's a day that you lost.
That's the way we think about it.
And not only it applies to the founders that we want to partner with, that we get a good
fortune to partner with or the people in our team, it also applies to who do we take money
from?
We can partner and we think of all of them in the same way.
They can not fit this napkin, they shouldn't be our partners on any capacity.
I'd love to learn how that same idea has applied to you because you're the founder
of Ribbit and it's a business, you treat it like a business.
It has adapted like crazy, I mean, we won't say the returns, but they've been spectacular.
And those returns have come across wildly different styles of investing and different
portfolio concentrations across the different funds.
It has been the hardest part about being able to continually grow and adapt and not get
sucked into, oh, Ribbit's a firm that's had success doing this thing and they're going
to keep doing this thing.
That's nice to say, I think everyone listening would agree like, yeah, I want to do that
too.
I want to grow in that way.
I want to be adaptable.
But it's hard.
Obviously, otherwise, more people would do it.
So what have been the hardest parts about keeping that in your DNA?
It's been willing to kill the things I got you here.
This concept about personally, I always go back to this idea.
I grew up in an amazing community in Caracas, in an amazing high school.
My class is, could not have been better in everything.
Our teachers are school.
My classmates.
It was literally, I cannot even explain to you how good it was, how good we had it.
I always think about going back to our reunions and looking at somebody and saying, oh my
god, that guy peaked in high school or that guy peaked in their five-year union.
That concept in my mind does not allow me to even, I want to peek the day I'm in the
cemetery, the day I die.
That day, I want to say, this guy peaked today.
So that mindset, it forces this behavior that we have here, that we've worked so hard
to have, which is, burn the bridge that got you here.
Whatever got you here will get you to the next place.
What got me to come to the US in 2007 is not what will make me be happy 2024.
Just be willing to change and change and change and don't look back one day of what
you did in the past, just don't forget where you came from, don't ever forget where you
came from, but always be looking where you're going.
One of the great joys of this business for me is picking sides, deciding that you're
going to throw your conviction behind somebody who's going after something.
What does conviction feel like to you?
If you had to describe the feeling of conviction when you get it and have it, how would you
describe it?
As a team here, we have the conviction.
We just don't listen to anybody else.
We just don't listen.
People will say, no, but this and that I'm like, yeah, thank you, conviction is one of
the most important traits, I think, for any human.
If you don't have conviction, you end up diversifying and diversifying is like a conviction.
It's not an investment philosophy, it's just like a conviction.
Most people that are successful in life and find joy in life is because they found a handful
of things in their lives that make them very happy.
You need 50, you need diversification.
You don't think of that.
You don't have more kids to diversify.
You have more kids because you have conviction that you can be a good parent.
All of those examples are just the ways we sort of think about it.
I think heart pairs incredibly well with conviction.
You're one of the biggest-hearted people that I've met in this business.
What is the role that heart plays in Rivet's story?
It's the current center, it's central.
It's the central system of everything.
Person foremost, we're all humans and we all have flaws and we all have attributes.
If you're not willing to embrace those, both of them, then you're in the wrong business.
We have had a share of founders that have found themselves in controversies that have
not been fun for them or their families and we end up going out, reaching out to them,
calling them, meeting them in person and then even backing them for the next venture when
that occurs in their lives and being there from early days.
Why?
Because we had conviction.
We got to know them.
We saw them.
We did our work.
No matter what you read out there, no matter what people say, if you really understand them
as humans and they recognize that there was a mistake made and we're all humans.
We all make mistakes.
I wouldn't be here if a lot of people allow me to make mistakes and keep living, but there's
times in society when that's not allowed, but we should not forget that that's hard.
Where do your personal dreams come from?
What are the source materials, the ingredients?
This concept of making money better and that has driven me since I was five or six years
old and it will probably drive me until my last day in this planet, which this concept
of every time money becomes better, people live better lives.
Doesn't mean more money, it means better money.
It means it's easier to access, it's easier to save, it's easier to get alone, it's easier
to do aspects with it that you couldn't do before so you can build your vision on your
life.
So the metrics that I care the most are riveted, it's more than number of people that we touch
every year in trying to make their lives better because that will probably drive the
output of what investors want, which is returns and impact and all of those measures.
But right now we touch 900 million people every year with financial services that we
make their lives better.
I would like the number to be a couple billion.
Maybe it's a great excuse to talk about an investment that you made, a very big one that
was very creative and very different, which was a partnership with Walmart, maybe tell
us the story, but use it as an example of how you and your team at Ribbit work.
Where did it come from?
What was the process that happened behind the scenes for you to get excited about it
and shape it, the things that you cared about as investors?
I want a couple of excuses like this to ask you about the process.
Once you find something, what then happens, but this one was so unique and different.
And I know you've done one or two others like it, but maybe can you tell us the story of
the joint venture that you do with Walmart?
This is goes to that point we were discussing about during the COVID era.
You had FinTech or financial services blowing up around the world growing up to the right.
Everything was becoming digital.
People were stuck under homes.
They were using more and more financial products, but also they caused to acquire customers
the way to get the attention of them, the way to build a brand that they trusted was
becoming more and more difficult.
So we sat on a whiteboard right before COVID and saying, who could be a great partner to
build a financial services company with a brand that people already trust that we could
go and do something completely different, but digital from inception.
And Walmart was one of the top two brands that we had on the list.
So I had to Sarah Fryer, I had a chance to meet Doc Macmillan, the CEO of Walmart, and
he had left he and offered, Hey, if you're ever in Bentonville, drop me a line.
I don't know.
Why would I go to Bentonville?
Except to see him.
I texted him in January and say, Hey, I'm going to go to Bentonville.
Can I stop by?
So we went to see him before that we had walked the Walmart stores.
We have transacted every single financial product that you can imagine from the money
center to the prepaid cards, to the remittances, we had tried everything and we had all of
the user flows and all of the things and we had found two bucks in their systems.
So when we show up in their office, I sit down in the room with Doug and I say, Hey,
listen, before we start, I want to tell you that we try every product that we found two
bucks and here they are and I show it to them.
And he literally gets out of the room, leaves me alone on his conference room and comes
back five minutes later with a $20 bill and he says, your $20 says, what is this?
This is a bug bounty.
We pay a Walmart and he gives me $20.
And what I learned from that experience was they are playing an infinite game.
They're here to serve hundreds of minutes of customers and they really, really care about
making their lives better.
And we sat down and we sort of structured with Doug and John Furtner, the US, this idea
of building a new company from scratch with the right team led by Omer and David that
we convinced to join from inception from the beginning to go build a next a company that
was going to serve their hundreds of millions of customers with digital financial products
and shut down all of the services that they had been built since 1990 that had never accrued
more than 1% of their sales.
And so we did that.
It's a company called OneApp.
It's under second or third year of existence.
It's actually quite big inside the Walmart stores.
If you want to pay inside Walmart with your phone, the only way to do it is through one,
the OneApp and the beauty of working with them, we got to understand what it was to work
with a big company from inception.
What are their data sets?
What are their concerns on privacy?
What are their concerns of our regulatory, how to build these kinds of ideas.
And it's very unique in the sense that you have the trust of their millions of users from
inception to go build something.
So that was what we were doing during COVID versus trying to do a lot of other investments
later stage and pay higher multiples.
We were building from scratch something that right now we're starting to see the joy of
it.
Do you think there's more opportunity for big companies like that that have these huge advantages
to work with nimble technologists that have a very different perspective and build something
that big from scratch, like it was capitalized to be very big and it's a huge customer base.
The degree of difficulty is probably pretty high, but do you think there's more opportunity
to do things like that?
I think there is.
We're just starting to see the CEOs of these companies are all people that now grew up with
the internet one way or the other.
So they're much more native to Italy than if you had to have this competition 10 or 15
years ago.
So they're appetite to understand what are the limitations they have inside that they
can not replicate versus what they can do with technologies and build something that
has a independent life, but tied to the mothership one way or the other.
It's much better now than any other time in the last 40 years.
You were an early investor in new bank and David Velez is one of the most incredible
entrepreneurs of this generation for sure.
What did you learn watching him build a digital first bank?
What are the key lessons that you take away as you think about something like one?
I agree with you.
He's one of the best in the world by far.
From inception, the talent of people, he convinced to move to Sao Paulo.
They had no Portuguese.
They had not even ever been there and yet they were moving and from day one from his
Stanford Business class and other friends, it's just insane.
So differentiated talent was number one, the way he always thought about it.
He has kept that high bar even to date.
They are known for having some of the best talent worldwide and they're loyal and they
want to stay there and want to build brands.
So that culture that he did was very unique.
The second thing was he kept his head low for as long as he cool.
If you went to Brazil in those first five, seven years, they will laugh at new bank.
No one knew a number, no one knew a technology stack they were building, no one knew anything
about them.
And the less they gave out, the better.
So they had no distractions.
David was super focused on not getting distracted with any external metrics or validation.
And you see it on the way he built that cap table.
Same investors were there all the way from the beginning, all the way to the end.
You didn't have a bunch of people coming in or coming out or changing.
He just wanted to maintain discipline on how he did what he did.
And on the digital side, he just truly understood always what was the customer's pain and was
willing to address it directly.
I remember when he started and if you were transacting with your credit card and they
saw that you were paying for a vet, they will send you cookies to your house because it
meant that the animal was sick.
They were just really thoughtful about how to build that trust and that brand loyalty
which is so critical for the success.
And even today when you hear his earnings call, you fast forward 15 years now or 14 years
and you hear his earnings calls and you leave the earnings call, it's exactly the same thing
he was saying 10 years ago or 14 years ago.
So our joy to be able to be there on those first conversations and to be as an investor
still in those earnings calls because we bought more shares in the public market or
whatever.
It's just consistency.
We look at our notes from David from our first born meeting when I was there in 16 or 17
to now.
It's the same.
I'd love to talk about how you see skill and talent in other investors and specifically
on the people on the Rivet team.
Your style is so big and sort of in the flow of the world as it's changing, as the money
is seeking its new spot.
I've gotten emails from Nick, your partner, on a company that are more analytical and
rigorous and thorough, stunning emails, honestly.
I can't think of other people that have written emails like he's written.
He's an amazing right, yes.
And his style is totally different than yours.
Oh, yes.
How do you think about complementarity of skill when you're recruiting investors?
What are you looking for to say a bit more about the team and how you've built it?
I never believed in titles and never believed in job descriptions or, hey, I'm looking for
this and here's a job description.
I thought it was, again, that's those are labels and the mindset of labels, I think you
got to start backwards.
Start just finding amazing people, no assholes.
Nick is one of the smartest persons I've met in my life.
By the way, he's the only Ivy League guy we have in the entire, really big team.
So that tells you there's a lot of joy in that story.
He's 10 years younger than me, he's much smarter, much more thoughtful.
And from day one, there was one thing that I remember from our first conversation was
I gave him a case study to go look at.
It was a company in Europe that was one of the first big FinTechs and I said, go study
it and we'll have breakfast and chat about it.
And he came back and talked about this company but talked about the founders by name.
And that was the moment where I said, he gets people.
He didn't start by talking about the numbers or the market.
He just said, X name and X name, they came from this company.
This is what they be, my guess is this is our behavior.
This is the way I read, the way they speak and this is what they're saying.
And it was just so human.
So I think fundamentally from the beginning and then we had a Nikolai, a little bit later
from Bulgaria and he was a Morgan Stanley.
But we've just added people that had grit, had passion for the space and had this ability
to truly be humans first, literally just good people.
And after that, you just work on the skills.
So our culture has been, bring them young, train them in our ways, grow them in an organization
that has no titles, no job descriptions.
You will change your role multiple times on any given day, week or month or year.
We will shift.
You gotta be able to be good at self-expressing yourself because you have to teach.
Every moment you come back from a meeting, you gotta teach back everybody else.
We are only as good as the knowledge that you transfer to the rest of us.
If the knowledge stays with one person, you're fried.
It's a dead end street that has no output.
So that by itself drives a different kind of people.
We don't bring stars, everybody has become a star being here, there was no one at all,
he was great there, we brought him here.
No, they don't gel because the team wins as a whole.
So that joy that comes from working together only comes when you have that.
Once you put something different to the inside of that model, it can break or the inertia
just excels it off.
So it's very different.
And we tell that we companies, like companies said, "Hey, am I going to talk to you?
Am I going to talk to Nick or Nicola or Justin or Eva or?"
And he says, "No, you got to talk to everybody.
You will find that you will call Justin for something and you will call Zach for something
else and you'll call Eva and you'll call Cindy."
And then typically, typically when the shit is a fan, that's when they call me.
That's a call right here, when something goes really wrong.
The other calls anybody else gets, but that's how it works.
How much do you think about returns?
I don't.
I don't think about returns.
I think returns is an output metric and I focus a lot more on the input and I let the
output take care of itself.
Now one thing that I, a friend of mine, a dear friend told me early on in this journey,
Rivet was, "Great work, you got your first one raised, but guess what?
You only truly win your stars on your shoulder when you return capital."
So that's stuck with me.
It's stuck with me in so many ways that from early on I was always thinking about it instead
of trying to build an empire of AUM and I always looked up at Berkshire since I was a
kid, how they compounded and compounded and compounded the balance sheet.
I understood that I was playing a different kind of game than that and just the differences
on that.
So how does that manifest in something like Price?
We were talking before about a company that has all the trappings of an incredible founder,
opportunity at the edge of what's possible and the price is, to say, nosebleeds would
be understating it.
How do you think about a situation like that?
Warren Buffett used to say that if you, rather, from business school or college and they gave
you a scar with like 10.
20 punches on it, that one, yeah.
Exactly.
That's all you should do in your life and be very careful.
I think we each want to have one of those to just pack amazing people regardless of value.
So you're not going to do that every day, you're never going to do that every year.
But I put myself in your shoes and say, "Okay, Patrick, you have interviewed almost every
smart person there is to interview an American, eventually you will do this around the world.
You have met them, you've seen them vulnerable, you've seen them speak, you've seen them interact,
you talk to them online, offline, and then you find somebody who blows your mind away.
What in your framework does not give you the right to punch that guard?
Why gets stuck on value when you have a ray of exposure to people and as you get older,
your gut overtakes your brain and you got to trust it more.
So that's the way I think of it, I said, "Am I going to build a business like that?"
Probably not because it's not the right way.
It's really hard to do it and you end up gambling a lot more than you are investing.
But would you make an exception when you find somebody unique and just close your eyes and
say, "Don't look at it for literally five years, 10 years and just say this person became
amazing and you've not learned why?"
Definitely you should do it.
It makes me think of other singular things and fintech for sure with exceptions of course
like Robinhood.
I wouldn't say as an area that's associated with amazing brands.
You and I spent some fascinating time together learning from some of the people that have
built the most iconic brands in the world.
How is your view on the importance of brand evolve?
What does a great brand mean to you?
It's the topic that I've been spending the most time the last two years.
Outside of these trends and what we need to do here, you have some of the greatest podcasts
on brand stories too.
I think at the end, brand is to under-promise and over-deliver on anything that you do.
That's how great brands get built.
If you can do that and you can be a great storyteller of that under-promise and over-deliver,
in no matter what area you are, you will win.
Now, what I find interesting is that most people are not trained to think about brand.
No one taught them about this concept.
They didn't study it in college, they didn't grew up in an environment even though America's
brands around the world are some of the best in everything.
When we were built in Rivet, I always said, why are we not doing active speaking or marketing
or Twitter because our brand needs to come from the founders.
Our brand needs to come is when you ask any founder, who is the first person you call,
would they say Rivet?
If we win that battle, that's our brand.
What I've learned about it is that when you talk to entrepreneurs in R-space, any space
in around e-commerce or digital financial services or crypto, crypto has a terrible brand for
the record.
The crypto brands, who came up with the Bitcoin logo, there's no brand story there and despite
all of those things, look at what he has done.
Imagine if he had a grip.
One day that will happen, but not yet.
When you look at the best companies around the world, you took some from Fompa or David
from NuVanch or you talked to Nikolay or Revolut, how they build it, they never spend a lot
of money on marketing.
All they did was over-deliver on what they promised and that's what it takes.
It's just simple and incredibly elegant concept.
Thinking about visual parts of brands, making you think about art and your commitment to
how art is changing is certainly the most interesting of anyone that I've met.
You clearly love it.
You've mentioned it earlier as a way to see the future, that are to see the future so
you can piggyback on their experience.
How have you approached this part of your life?
Again, we're sitting around some of the most incredible, beautiful art, but art that's
very different from what you would see in a normal home or fancy art collection.
It's new, it's interactive, it's unique.
Why are you so interested in this and how have you approached this world?
Growing up in Venezuela, my wife and I are both from there.
Venezuela had some of the most amazing artists in the world when we were kids.
We were in the 50s and 60s, Venezuela had the highest GDP per capita in the world.
It was Saudi Arabia before we were even born, and the Venezuelan artists were leading some
of the best art movements worldwide.
It was present everywhere, it was present in the highways, in the universities, in the
shopping centers, in the museums, you saw it everywhere.
We grew up seeing modern, beautiful artists and their concepts, and when we started on
this journey, she's the one that got us back to that journey together in the last number
of years, but then during the 2022 downturn, when things started to cool down a bit and
we had more bandwidth and we had more free time, I had missed completely the NFT craziness
of the first vintage of 1920 completely missed it.
We were so busy with other stuff, I hadn't seen anything, I was like what are these things?
People are trading these tokens, I felt like it was like game stuff, kind of meme stuff.
But then in 2022, Stambalapan, as I am even more free time, a R piece that suddenly looked
like something from the 1950s that we knew, but it was completely different.
It was the same, but it was different, it was dynamic, it moved, it was the same kind
of concept and we were like, what is this?
This doesn't look like a meme, this looks like something completely different.
We went down that rabbit hole and then said, what are the crypto punks?
Oh wow, there's only 10,000 of them and they're the first ever generative art ever put on
chain and what does it mean and the community of crypto punks, it's stronger than any other
community, literally.
I think it's even stronger than the community of people that own a Ferrari around the world,
on how they speak, how they relate, how they identify themselves.
These are truly aspects that I have not seen.
You're seeing network states, there's a lot of talk about network states.
There are network states getting built around some of these movements and you can see their
movements now, they're not just one artist doing one thing.
So we slowly started to get into this and then we started to meet these artists and guess
what?
These artists are the most amazing people to go hang out with.
There's no prima don't ask, there's no language I gotta maintain or way of speaking that I
gotta say about the art or some other.
They're just genuinely people that were artists of their lives or they had to study computer
science because they had to get a job and they could never express themselves and suddenly
they can.
So you just go, you meet people or you go meet some sprat or you go meet MP cos which
is a piece that you like here or Scott from the dream machine.
And there are just amazing human beings in artists and you can see what art looked like
in Paris in the 1920s when they got over coffees and it felt like going back to a Bitcoin conference
in 2013 when the first people were starting it.
It's just that kind of energy that you cannot see and then my wife and I started to look
at the museums of today, the Moam and others and they feel like bank branches feel like
why would you go to a bank branch anymore?
Really a teller, a window, what is this?
And the museums feel like that they're white, they're sterile, they have these big walls
with one piece of art and a little plaque that you gotta just bend over and read or you
listen on your headphones.
The two things you can do is either take a photo, good luck, see it again on your phone,
you will never again, see it on your phone or take a selfie of yourself and there's no
immersive, there's no ownership.
How would it feel if you go to a digital art museum that is born to be digital with physical?
But the walls are digital, there's physical in the middle, you're immersed in the piece
in the way it was built in the story that I was trying to say, it talks to you, it lives
to you and you can tap somewhere and leave with some pieces of art.
How would that feel in your story in your life?
It definitely feels a lot more richer, talking back to where people are heading and so that
to me is a proxy of where the world is going, on everything and art is just ahead.
But that's how we're gonna feel about a lot of our things and all the podcasts that you've
done around IoT, AI engines and where money is flowing and how people are investing,
all those things will show in these things in the next couple decades.
I want to ask a little bit more about what you said earlier that this deep dream and
passion of yours is that every time money gets better, the world gets better.
Can you just say a little bit more about the dimensions of that that you've learned?
What are the mechanics of that?
Why is that true?
Why is that the foundational belief?
Because I also want to ask a little bit more again about this grid of which money is a
part and the way the world is shifting around.
But what's behind this foundational observation of yours that if you improve money, everything
else improves?
Why is that necessarily true?
Because if you're sitting in Karachi or Bangalore or London or Caracas or Riyadh and all of us
have access to investing our money in the same product, the level of transparency on
opportunities of investing are unique.
Why does a customer only need to be at a private bank super high end to get the best
products?
So if you can save the same way anywhere in the world and that's the promise of crypto,
in many ways the crypto rails, the grid giving you access to the same product anywhere in
the world, then people will have better risk return adjusted income, which will probably
allow them to buy a better home or get their kids to go to a better college or pay for
tuition or have less debt.
And the same on the debt side, if you have to take a loan to expand yourself, to bet
on yourself, to buy a car because you need to get a better job so you can drive there
or buy a home closer to whatever kind of loan, you want to make sure they're not paying high
out of market rates.
You want to make sure they're not thinking about getting their knees broken with a bat
because they cannot pay the tug on their neighborhood.
But they're getting it from somewhere institutional that has a process and underwriting a credit
score system, a discipline of losses and gains.
That's why money makes life better when you can access those things because suddenly if
you can barely get a loan to pay on to the next payroll, but now you can get a loan to
buy a car, a mortgage or build your own company, it will make life better.
If you think back on Rivet's whole history, the firm, let's pretend that you had to go
start Rivet 2.0 for whatever reason.
Rivet disappears.
You got to start Rivet 2.
What mistakes from your history at Rivet would make you most prepared to do an even better
job in Rivet 2?
And I'm sure these are all things that you're doing anyway, but there's a fun thought
exercise.
Wow, I thought you had asked me a really hard question.
I would say for as much as I told you about concentration, I will even be more concentrated.
Even more so.
Wow.
I try to correct that on a daily basis.
Definitely a lot more concentrated and the other mistakes that are probably correct on
Rivet 2.
I think we really are on Rivet 2, so maybe Rivet 3, it's probably the use of our time.
The more time we spend in getting to know founders and spending time with them, really
getting to know them and become trusted, the more valuable and the more joy we have.
So even though I feel really good that we have a bunch of friends and the best metric
of that is that almost every founder that we've backed has later become an LP or an investor
in our funds just because of our relationship, I will still double down and spend even more
time with them.
Say a little bit more about the conviction one.
I think of you as a pretty concentrated investor.
Why even more?
Because the impact you can have is limited by the amount of people that you can touch
and the more concentrated you are there, the more impact you can have and the more pressing
you can be.
And I think, for example, if we do a good job on understanding the grid and we do thesis
driven work on what needs to happen there, how do we solve identity first and how do
we do this?
And we find the one or two or three things that matter the most on identity, we should
do that and not do anything else.
And then think about the second chapter of the grid and then do the same, but you don't
have to do 50 things to express our opinion and I think that's where it gets diluted.
It's not us, but I will even do less.
But unexpected plot twist in the story turned out to be a great blessing.
Oh my God, so many.
For example, 2022, when everything started to blow up, the attention to the space died.
2020 to 22 was probably five years condensing to do because of COVID and lockdowns did so
much to the space that accelerated everything.
If we hadn't had air to breathe then and to take time to think, we would have made
a hundred mistakes.
So the plot of actually the market slowing down dramatically was one of the best blessings
we had because we saw that FinTech was dying and if we hadn't stopped, we wouldn't have
seen it.
We would have missed it and make a lot of mistakes.
So you have to bless market cycles when they give you time to think and embrace it as a
moment to think versus trying to say, oh, the momentum is gone.
I remember a conversation we had then, I think it was the first time we ever met and you
said, I'm not an investor right now, I'm a risk manager and it's such an interesting
time that was the beginning of now of this new foundation that you're building on.
So cool to think back on.
What makes you emotional in all of this?
In a good way or a bad way?
I'm curious about both.
In a bad way, it's when somebody lies.
I have no room for the line of any kind.
My way of being the way we're at home, we have our kids, we embrace mistakes, we embrace
multiple mistakes but never lying.
Lying is the one thing that really just gets me emotional.
I always start by trusting everybody 100% and all you can do is lose the trust.
The people that are opposite, they give zero trust and as I get to know, you get to 100%
or maybe 50%, I always start at 100.
And that part emotionally drains me, takes away my energy when there's lying.
What gives me energy and when I get emotional is when I see people around me have joy.
When you see that they're doing what they're meant to be doing, when you see that they wake
up and they are asking and they're learning and they're interacting and they're building
what they want to build, that gives me joy and the younger they are, the more joy I get.
We had an interview on the platform of Steve Young, the quarterback recently and he talked
about this part of his life when he realized that he was part of the 49ers at the time,
which was the first place he called that a platform he had ever been that allowed him
to experiment with how good he could be and that supported him in that and taught him agency,
which is basically what you're saying now.
How do you do that?
What are the literal things you do to create the environment for the young people here
to have that experience of agency and what it might be like to find the thing they're
meant to do?
What are the things you do to promote that?
I incentivize all of them to try different stuff and try different experiments and go
meet different people, we incentivize them to go deep in an area of any kind of area
that they want to go as long as they come back and share the knowledge and if they can
articulate it and they're learning.
The other thing you do is you put them in positions to allow them to experience that.
Most people are afraid of sending somebody who's 25 or 26 to a million because they're
afraid what they're going to say, you cannot be afraid, you got to do it and if they make
a mistake on it, use us a teaching moment.
So we've had many teaching moments, we had great stories here of all kinds, we had great
outcomes but we had teaching moments and we always talk about the teaching moments and
we have a wall with all of the moments that are like that where we stick these things
and we leave them in prosperity so people learn from it.
That's a great story Nick is going to love me to say.
We started, he had this passion for this idea of this business in the early days and we
were just starting and he was so convinced and he was enamored, he put so much time and
he gave him a million dollar check to this company to start and do all this thing and
I was never convinced from day one and it's not right or wrong, it was just but you let
them do.
You risk management, can we afford that kind of bed?
The answer is yes, that's a teaching moment, we'll see what it brings.
Long story short, the company doesn't end up working and we get a check back for 93 cents.
So we never catch the check but we frame the check and it's framing this wall as a reminder
of a story that works like that.
It's not dissimilar than Bashar Hathaway keeping the name of the two companies that
he took bankrupt because that was his first business.
It's just reminders of who you are like that and so we embrace a lot of those.
What has you just most generally interested and excited about the world today?
You see so many parts of it, you're thinking big about these changes forced to zoom in
on something.
What gets you the most excited?
I feel that there's so much still to be done in build that I get excited in so many different
directions.
But more importantly I'll tell you is when you travel the world, it's what gets you
more excited.
Amen.
When you spend time and you meet people anywhere in the world, on any country, on any situation,
on a vacation, on a work trip, on an airport and you just meet these people, all of them
trying to build 99% people in the world are good people and you get to meet them and you
see their energy and you get energized by that.
I end up traveling a ton, not because I like to get out of here of Silicon Valley but actually
because the world is much bigger than Silicon Valley and I get a lot more energy from outside
that I bring back here when I'm home with my family, with my kids and at work and that
is what gets me excited.
When I meet these young people, I was at the crypto conference in Singapore a couple of
weeks ago.
It was my first time in a conference in 10 years.
I've never been to one in 10 years.
You know what got me excited?
I heard all our 35 languages being spoken in the booths.
I counted them.
That was so energizing.
Just a reminder that this is much bigger than one, thanks to that Gary Gensler for example.
It's just, those things get me really excited.
You mentioned earlier that a call you always get has been something's breaking when there's
a crisis.
Why?
What's your method?
You get a call right after this and something's gone horribly wrong.
What do you do?
How do you respond?
So I'll probably say, okay, all right, let's go figure this one out.
So we just start the conversation, right?
And it always goes by asking a few questions, clarifying questions.
And then it goes to this path that says, hey, what are you talking about your options?
And double click on those a little bit.
And typically they know the answer, they just haven't thought through it.
So where I have the most joy when I get those challenge calls is that I can really help
them figure out the first decision they need to make.
Not all of them, just the first and the most immediate one.
And when that happens, they can unlock the rest.
But sometimes they're stuck in making just the first simple decision.
And it's not simple, but in many ways it's always easier from the outside.
I'm realizing that so much about you in this story, almost everything is about movement
and change, obviously growth is like good movement or something.
Even the art, everything moves, nothing stands still.
Do you think that's a fair summary of you?
Listen, I can swim in a river, I can swim in an ocean, I can not swim in a pool or a
hot tub or sit on one because the water is still, it doesn't move, everything that I enjoy
has to have movement.
I walk every day, nothing is static.
It's amazing.
It's very cool.
Good catch.
If I had to give you a napkin here in closing, you get one napkin to leave behind, you have
to leave rivet for two years or something.
You're still a part of it, but you have to disappear for two years.
And all you can leave behind for your team is one napkin.
But do you write on it?
Wow.
I will write, never forget where we came from.
Always remember, last decisions is best and be genuine to yourself and to everybody
around you.
I'm sure they will do great.
I want to ask you about Rick Elias and then I'll ask you my traditional closing question.
Rick's one of the most unique and generous people that I've encountered in many years.
I know you know him much better than I do.
What have you learned from him?
Oh, my God.
We can do a whole podcast just until I see it right now.
First, the world was not ready to see Rick live this planet.
And that's why that US Air flight amongst other people had a reason to survive.
What he brings in terms of value systems, in terms of motivating everybody around him,
what he brings in his energy and his charisma to always say what he thinks no matter the
consequences.
It's quite spectacular to watch and he's only getting better as a year so by.
I think what he taught me the best is to live a life full of joy on how he can do it
at all different levels.
He's older than me, so I can always look up and see what it looks like in the different
faces.
I've learned how to manage the different cycles as one gets older.
And more importantly, not to forget where you came from.
And you can see the full loop on him now embracing even more his roots to Puerto Rico.
And I think that full life cycle of his family, his work, his community, his inner perspective,
and his roots, it's very unique to see.
Beautiful.
Anything about rivet that we haven't covered or just like your philosophy of the world and
how you operate that you think is really important?
For me, and for what this means, is are we going to be around in five years or ten years?
The answer is I don't know.
Are we going to be doing what we do today or something completely different?
The answer is I don't know.
Will we ever raise a fund again?
I don't even know.
What I know is when you put a group of people together that are passionate about meeting
others and engaging and learning and the inputs into the machine are things that will make
the world better.
The output on the other side is magical.
Beautiful soul of the business.
My closing question for everyone is the same.
What is the kindest thing that anyone's ever done for you?
My father, who passed away a long time ago when I was 16 years old, I remember after being
in high school, sitting in the couch, watching TV at 4 p.m. and he looked at me and said,
you don't deserve to be in this couch.
You should be active.
You should be doing something because the world has big ambitions for you.
And that was it.
And he turned around and left.
I started working the next day.
I went and applied for a job and started working.
I had never stopped.
And he was right.
That message, that moment, at that age, at that particular day was what I needed to hear
to get the confidence to get up and start.
And something in him knew that he was there and I was just not willing to initiate it.
The lesson that I've taken from getting to know you and Ribbit and the way you guys
approach the business world, you are investors, you are deploying capital, you've done a very
good job of it, is the generative nature with which you do it.
But yes, you're capitalists and you're trying to do well.
But the way that you've done it is this creative, generative, backing people who want to create
new things and try new things in the world.
I think that's an amazing lesson for all of us.
And I know you don't do this very much or ever.
And so I'm really appreciative of the example that you guys have set.
It's definitely impacted me in a major way.
And I hope you know that it's done that for lots, not just founders, but other investors
too.
So thank you so much for your time.
Thank you, Patrick and what I've learned from this time together with you is that you have
this amazing gift to know how to get to know people and you have this amazing gift to look
at beyond what most people see.
So keep it to whatever you're doing because I think the best of Patrick is yet to come.
I appreciate that and that won't be a problem.
Thanks, Mickey.
If you enjoyed this episode, check out JoinColossus.com.
There you'll find every episode of this podcast complete with transcripts, show notes, and
resources to keep learning.
You can also sign up for our newsletter Colossus Weekly, where we condense episodes to the
big ideas, quotations, and more, as well as share the best content we find on the Internet
every week.
[music]
[music]
[music]
You
You

