 (upbeat music)
 - All right, so thank you for doing this.
 I realize that you've been spending more time
 being the interviewer than being interviewed,
 but I appreciate you doing this,
 and it's nice to be doing it in your office.
 - Yeah, well, any excuse to hang out with you?
 - The first thing I wanna ask you about is,
 what a VC firm sort of is,
 and the thing I've been thinking about a bunch is,
 when I was doing Lattice, I kinda knew what a company was,
 like, you know, you build a product,
 you sell the product, like,
 there's like a sort of a very tractable thing.
 And then over the last year doing venture full-time
 for the first time,
 it struck me that it's a much more sort of flimsy concept,
 and, you know, there's obviously like a fund
 that owns shares, but then there's like a brand,
 and there's people, and there's these other parts.
 And as I've been thinking about building a VC firm,
 I've realized that thinking about what it actually is
 is sort of like a wispy idea,
 and so I would love just to hear from you
 as you've thought about, you know,
 you've been at one, like a very substantial longstanding one.
 Now you've built your own.
 How do you think about what a VC firm is?
 We've taken like two steps toward building our own.
 You've done something now.
 It's an interesting question.
 Like, the way we think of it internally is,
 and it's not like the most flattering view,
 but venture is a bundle of like money.
 I'm thinking about the value props to the customer, right?
 The customer's the founder.
 Venture is a bundle of money,
 where like everybody's money is approximately green, right?
 You can have like lower and higher quality LPs,
 but generally that's not how founders make their decision.
 Then you have people and beliefs
 that you are associated with as a founder,
 and then you have advantage, right?
 Like what can, like, can,
 and I wouldn't do the job if I didn't figure
 like that the last piece could matter at all,
 but help you can give companies
 and to try to make things happen faster
 or make ideas like more possible to actually make real.
 It is a weird way to think about venture as a business,
 because for all tech investors love to talk about,
 like, you know, like moats and differentiation
 and sustainable advantage.
 I think venture, like when you think about those components,
 money is the purest commodity.
 The rest of it is pretty squishy.
 It's a lot of like brand and individuals
 that feel quite fragile or like point in time.
 But, you know, some of the great venture brands
 they've been around for a long time,
 and I think it's still possible
 to build an enduring institution, so.
 Yeah, and some of those brands do,
 something is compounding there.
 And I guess maybe that's an interesting sort of way
 to pull on the thread is like,
 what is compounding at Sequoia or Great Lock
 or these firms that have been successful for decades?
 What's the thing that is like hard to knock off balance?
 Like, what is the thing that's making the,
 is it like, is it the brand?
 Is it the network of founders?
 Is it something about the way they do business?
 Like, what is holding on through different years
 and teams and cycles?
 Yeah, well, I would start by saying like,
 I actually like really want to try to live like this.
 And I think your entire like personality expresses this,
 but like this is, this doesn't feel like
 a particularly zero sum environment.
 I think you can try to build a new thing without saying,
 we're like completely after somebody else.
 But in terms of durability, I think you have,
 you have like ethos, right?
 Like what matters to the people in a firm
 that goes from generation to generation
 and different investors,
 you have like some tribal knowledge
 and that is like what has worked
 in the last generation of companies?
 Good and bad biases, like the history of technology, right?
 Like, sure, it's how Apple or Google or NVIDIA did it
 or Facebook for that matter.
 And then you have, you have brand,
 which is just obviously what founders think of the place,
 how much success you've had and then you have network.
 And I think those are,
 I think those are the things that are harder
 to replicate very quickly.
 I think you also, if you are at a platform venture firm,
 you have a lot of capital available to you,
 but there's also just a lot of capital in the world.
 Yeah, I wanna come back to what you said about
 sort of the whole zero sum nature of it all
 and to what degree, you know,
 more value gets created versus venture capitalists
 are sort of capturing.
 I've heard some people say that they think that
 great founders select, like the truly great founders
 are actually selecting for a different thing
 than other founders when they're thinking about their VCs.
 I can't remember, but, you know,
 who all but one name that comes around,
 I know Parker at Rippling has said that, like,
 brand is the most valuable thing that he can get from a VC
 because it makes it easier to recruit,
 easier to get the next customer, et cetera.
 And like, he's gonna do the work anyway.
 And so, at least he can get a brand.
 Do you think, like, as you've experienced sort of
 working with companies and founders,
 do you think that there are different attributes
 in an adventure firm that different founders prioritize
 and does that impact at all the way that you wanna build
 when you think about, you know,
 your founders, the customer,
 but obviously you're looking for certain founders
 within that customer set.
 - Yeah, I definitely don't have to appeal to everybody.
 I think if you are going to go to the sort of
 highest prestige brand, like you wanna buy,
 I don't know, I was gonna say like IBM,
 but I mean this in a flattering way,
 like you wanna buy like the known winner.
 - Apple, let's say.
 - Apple, you buy Sequoia, right?
 And like, you know, number of challengers
 in the established tier,
 but I think a lot of people make decision,
 like founders are not a homogenous set.
 And like, let's just use examples here.
 I think a lot of people make decisions very individually,
 right?
 If they know, and you know,
 we also wanna back first time founders
 who've never met anybody in venture capital.
 And we talk about how you build that trust
 in those relationships.
 But Brett Taylor, when he builds his third company,
 he's just calling people he wants to work with.
 He does not care where they work, right?
 I don't think he like particularly cares
 about the brand of the firms.
 He is working with firms with nice brands,
 but he is picking individuals,
 probably because he doesn't feel like
 he particularly needs the halo.
 I think if you ask Parker, because I have,
 like I'm pretty sure he called Mike actually,
 because there's, and maybe that's also
 a symptom of him also being a third time founder.
 I think his specific words here were like,
 if I were ever to build another company, please God know.
 But I call Mike.
 And so I think that at some point,
 like the things that you feel like you want help with
 or support on on how much brand matters
 to you change as a founder.
 And so we want to attract a particular set.
 And I think our brand does stand for something.
 We're trying to make it stand for something now,
 but it doesn't have to be like,
 the most established prestige.
 We actually can't go back in time and do that.
 - Totally.
 Yeah, okay, I want to shift to brand now,
 'cause this is, it's something that you've done
 notably, I promised you I wouldn't like ask
 like a question that was like rooted in flattery,
 but like you've done a good job branding the firm
 since you started.
 And actually in some ways, I would say,
 you know, the last sort of really great firm
 to be built that, that I can think of,
 you know, that also launched with what I think
 was a very strong, market presence was Andreessen.
 This is like 2009.
 And like all of a sudden they were like everywhere.
 They did many things.
 They like dominated PR.
 They were like, you know, investing in great companies
 at what seemed like then high prices.
 Many of them were actually still really good investments
 from there, but like there were a bunch of things
 that let them get this brand very quickly.
 And then they scaled rapidly and all of that.
 And in some ways, there was not, you know,
 another firm that did that.
 And, you know, at risk of flattery, you've been,
 you've built a very good brand very quickly
 and you've kind of been everywhere.
 And, you know, people see you in a lot of different places
 in high value places.
 They see you on good cap tables.
 They see you at good events.
 They see you, you know, they see you just like frequently.
 To what degree is that just what's been happening
 by a product of you sort of working hard,
 having a clear view and whatever?
 Or to what extent is this all like wrapped around
 like an intentional goal building the firm
 in a particular direction?
 And this is part of the story.
 - There's a founder that we both know
 who has like a medium scale SaaS business now.
 And at one point, I lost an investment
 at my prior firm to Andreessen.
 It was a series A for this company.
 This lovely founder was like, hey, love you guys,
 but they're paying more.
 And like let me, like I was, and I was like, oh, well,
 like it doesn't matter.
 Like all of these other things matter.
 And we sat down in a bar for like three hours
 and he explained to me like how he saw the firms.
 And he basically was like, ah, these things like,
 they look pretty similar, except they look bigger
 and like they're better at PR
 and they're willing to pay more.
 And I was like, ah, that's bummer.
 I took this like list that this founder gave me
 and just like stuck it on my office door
 at my old firm for a number of years.
 I was salty about it or wanted to like try
 to solve the problem.
 And so one of the things that I think you just like
 think about when you start a company
 and you've worked on early stage companies for a while
 is like the, who said this originally?
 Like it's such an important thing.
 Like nobody cares.
 Nobody cares about Jack or Sarah or their firms
 or your new startup.
 And so like you have to make them care.
 The other thing that like we thought about was just
 if we think we are good partners to entrepreneurs,
 like why should they know?
 We have to like solve an information asymmetry for them.
 And one of the things that this founder said to me
 is like, you say you have a good network.
 They say they have a good network.
 It all kind of looks the same.
 And so one of the things that we wanted to do
 and like all the stuff is like, I don't know,
 you can just like try stuff and then see what sticks.
 But one of the things that we thought would be important
 would just be like, demonstrate who the network
 is to founders in ways that are like accessible to them
 without us like, man to man combat,
 women to women combat proving it.
 And so we did a bunch of what you would consider to be
 if you were in a company, it was like a, you know,
 SaaS founder of Lattice, be like partner marketing.
 - Yep. - Right?
 - Let's do it a little bit.
 - And we just were like, if it was a business,
 it would be a funnel as part of marketing,
 like what can we do that is efficient
 with people who have the distribution that we want,
 that like us, like, okay, let's go show up
 with NVIDIA and Snowflake and OpenAI
 and whoever it is that like is part of the community
 we want to be part of.
 - I mean, there's also the reality that you doing,
 you know, to the Parker point,
 there's reality that you doing the brand work
 actually also helps the companies in some ways,
 'cause you know, you doing branding can help your,
 at least at the early stage companies,
 there's value to it.
 So you talked about, so there's like partner marketing,
 which is sort of like, express the network.
 You also touched on something before,
 which was like, stand for something
 and then like, you know, share that.
 Is that like an essential part of it?
 Is that like the center of it?
 Is like, believing something in the world?
 And like, that's what the marketing is about.
 Like, you know, I know like,
 this was like a Steve Jobs thing was like,
 you know, we stand for something at Apple
 and like, that's what Apple's brand is,
 is we believe in like, you know,
 we believe in, you know, X, Y, Z things.
 And I think like, that could be the analogy here.
 But do you think of it, you know, is it network?
 Is it stand for something?
 Is there a third pillar?
 Like, what are those components in your mind?
 Be willing to take risk on having an opinion
 is an important one for us.
 I think a number of founders choose to work with us
 because they believe that like the firm is AI native
 in terms of understanding of these sets of things
 that the companies are trying to do.
 And then some has access to networks,
 some is understanding of the research itself,
 some is just like company specific challenges.
 I also think that maybe entrepreneurs like,
 if you, if you like want to go one level deeper,
 like, I don't know what the world looks like 20 years from now.
 I really hope that like conviction as an institution exists.
 But if you think about the like name we chose as well,
 it is like, have an opinion.
 Maybe we're in the like post AI abundance age
 and like venture is irrelevant
 or like we're on to the next big technology thing.
 And I hope the people at the firm,
 and maybe it's me, like are on to the next big thing too.
 But part of the core ethos for me about venture is like,
 I want to understand the new thing.
 And then like, we take risk on it.
 And like we published our LP letters recently.
 Some of those beliefs and predictions
 are going to be wrong and look very stupid.
 But for a generation of entrepreneurs right now,
 where everybody is in like a very dynamic environment.
 And I think people are unwilling to like make any claim
 about understanding or about prediction.
 I think that can be like very grounding of like,
 well, at least these people have an opinion.
 And I can decide if I have that worldview or not.
 - It's actually funny that you said that
 because about conviction,
 before you said that I had been thinking
 of the brand as AI native.
 And now that you say it,
 I actually can immediately re-understand it
 as have strong conviction.
 And what we believe right now
 is that AI is the most important thing.
 But if in 10 years that solved
 and now it's about space travel,
 like conviction could be about space travel.
 And that actually, that resonates.
 That makes sense to me.
 Do you think that in venture,
 do you think like brands typically like need
 to follow returns or do you think like,
 do returns follow brand to some extent?
 Is there a strong correlation
 or causation between these two things?
 - I think the most important part of brand
 should be success and success for a venture firm
 is like the quality of the companies.
 I actually don't even think that most founders
 have that much visibility into like how early you are
 or like how much of the companies you own.
 And like, sometimes I think like that would be useful
 to founders to have more transparency around.
 Like, hey, that person that like says they're part
 of this journey bought secondary at the series F, right?
 And that's like probably different than working
 on the company from eight or 10 years.
 But I think like year zero, you got to do something.
 - It also brings up a funny point though
 of like from a founders perspective,
 what is a VC being successful?
 What does that mean in the way they care about?
 Like, should they care more that you partnered
 with important companies or that you deployed
 a lot of capital?
 Or should they care more that you got crazy returns
 and companies they never heard of
 and didn't play a role?
 So it's not so obvious.
 And I do think that there are firms
 that can kind of impact the direction of capital flows
 and firms that are working with the most important
 companies that maybe don't have as good of returns
 as firms that are not doing those things.
 And so I do also, as we're talking about it,
 wonder from a founders perspective,
 which type of success is actually important?
 Like I joked recently that somebody was talking about
 like, oh, why should a founder want to work
 with that company?
 You know, they're huge and they don't have big returns.
 And I was like, if I'm thinking from a founder lens,
 I'm like, low returns for them
 means that that was less dilution for me.
 So that sounds great.
 But it's not so one to one.
 - Yeah, I think it's a really good point of like,
 I actually don't know that founders should care
 about the quality of our multiple.
 I think that is a proxy for like something founders
 should care about, which is taste.
 I do think some of the very best people,
 if you ask them, like when they say they're choosing brand,
 they care about association with quality and with success.
 And so if you do a small number of companies
 and the hit rate is high quality
 and the people is like a set of people
 that you'd be excited to learn from,
 I think that is attractive, right?
 And there is often a debate about whether or not
 you learn more from success or failure.
 I believe you learn more from success.
 - Me too.
 - And so I think people want the tribal knowledge
 going back to like, what is a venture firm really?
 Of like, what is working at like the handful of companies
 that are really working in this era?
 And so I think we want that to be, you know,
 part of the value prop and then part of the brand.
 But to your point of like,
 should founders choose the same thing
 and are the incentives fully aligned?
 Like, I think not, like there's a whole range, right?
 And I think it is, I actually joke with my partner,
 Mike of like, I think it is very reasonable,
 if you think about, if a bunch of VCs
 can argue about whether or not they're good operators,
 but once they've been investors,
 like, how might they raise money?
 They might raise money from their friends.
 They might raise money from the like,
 highest taste people and people who are most helpful.
 They might also raise the most money they can
 at the least dilution possible with the least control.
 It really depends on what you're looking for
 and like what your view is of what you're looking for
 from your investors.
 And so I also think it's like very stage specific.
 I don't think that founders should be optimizing
 for our returns.
 I think that's just a proxy for other things
 I might care about.
 - As you think about the current market landscape
 and you'd been investing, you know,
 professionally through the teens
 and then you got to, you know, live through
 sort of the zerp escalation
 and like sort of late stage sass before AI
 and all that other stuff, you know,
 for me on the founder side,
 what I remember in 2020 and 2021 was all these crossover firms
 that I just thought were hedge funds like came
 and were, you know, doing all these crazy market distortions
 and as founders, everyone was like, cool.
 But like that was what was going on.
 Then everybody kind of went away in 2023
 and now back in 2025, we have what looks to me
 like a similar but different dynamic
 where the crossovers don't seem to be back
 in a particularly important way at least.
 But you have the sort of bulge bracket institutional VCs
 that have gotten as big as those firms were
 and they're now, you know, three or five
 or nine billion or whatever.
 So you've got that going on.
 The other thing that I think is interesting
 that you sort of were the maybe the first
 of the most recent set, but there's like a number
 of now successful GPs that have left multi stages,
 started their own firms.
 So now there's gonna be, you know,
 there's always new firms being started
 but there's now a set that is sort of like ostensibly
 going to be slightly more institutional over time,
 probably smaller, but so you have these two sort of ends
 of the market going on at once.
 And you have, you know, AI mania, which, you know,
 as we know from, you know, internet in 1999
 could be undervalued still, could be overvalued.
 Who knows?
 What do you make of the shape of this market right now?
 What does it mean for where you think people
 can successfully play?
 What do you think it means for you
 and where you want to be playing?
 But like what's your read on that sort of market map?
 - Starting a venture firm has like made me
 slightly more cynical about the industry.
 I'm like a, I'm the opposite of a cynic in many ways.
 Like I'm a deep optimist about technology.
 I like working with really earnest people.
 I try to be an earnest person.
 But it is clear to me that raising money,
 like the couple markets are really deep
 and raising money is an awful lot easier
 than making money in venture from a returns perspective.
 I think like if you actually think about the economics
 of a venture firm to the investors,
 there's a crossover point of like,
 you could be like a best in class in any vintage investor
 delivering, let's say like respectable
 eight to 10 times multiple returns on a small fund
 and make not that much more money
 than somebody who's charging traditional venture fees
 on a fund 10 plus times your size, right?
 And so I think there's a very rational thing happening
 in the maturation of certain asset platforms
 where it is very easy to unconsciously be attracted
 by growth because like, you know, you've built a company,
 growth feels good.
 Growth is not a natural state for venture.
 It changes your ability to invest, right?
 But people are growing their firms.
 It's also like a natural organizational thing, right?
 If you hire young people and then you hire 10,
 then you hire 50, like they got, they got to go somewhere.
 And that also means like, that means opportunity,
 that means comp, that means agency.
 So I think that like a very natural thing has been happening
 where these things that were little boutiques
 are acting like businesses.
 The businesses naturally grow.
 There's capital available to them.
 The feedback loop for whether or not the returns
 are supported are also distorted by the fact
 that lots of people see the backwards looking multiple
 of the best funds of the vintage right before Zarp
 and were under invested in venture
 and are still trying to invest in venture.
 And like the outcome of all that to me is
 there's obviously secular increasing opportunity
 and technology over time.
 And that's the thing we index as venture investors.
 And so I think there should be some growth
 in the venture industry.
 I think this is like a skew from that
 and it will not end well in terms of returns for folks,
 but it is also just maturation of the asset class.
 And so I don't know that it goes away.
 If you like take private equity as an asset class prior
 or those platform businesses,
 it is very hard to make money in private equity
 at a top tier and people are not moving money
 out of the asset class.
 - Does it skew the ability for small firms to make money
 because these big firms though
 are going to play at every stage?
 And in the same way that, you know,
 the crossovers got into late stage growth
 and sort of we're sort of starting to do
 non-economic things, do the venture firms that are huge?
 Or is it rational for them to do non-economic things
 at seed because, you know, it fills the pipeline
 and they know that they're just going to play, you know,
 a different game on the winners
 and take sort of like a different IRR on that.
 And does that impact the whole ecosystem in a big way?
 - I think it does.
 And so I think the, like if you ask me what is a,
 what could I be wrong about in the whole like strategy
 or the ecosystem?
 I think there is a point of view of like,
 you can't make money in venture anymore
 in terms of like an outsized multiple in early
 because it's just a sourcing funnel
 for the late stage firms and the expectation on multiple,
 like the cost of that capital is lower, right.
 And so like, and you can just spend resource on it
 subsidized by the growth firm to, you know,
 be more competitive fit early, right?
 In terms of like marketing or people or whatever.
 We have eight people today.
 We had six people until last week.
 I guess like I would pause it until proven wrong.
 Like I think in the very early end of the ecosystem,
 like we're not trying to win everyone.
 We only have $200 million of capital.
 We need to have a couple really important companies
 to have a hugely winning fund in every cycle.
 You don't need that many people
 and that much money to compete
 because people are looking for different things.
 And the experience of working with you
 or working with a like a very specific set of people
 that have an opinion and have some certain understanding
 is quite different than working with a very large business.
 And like people choose different things.
 It's not a homogenous market.
 - We talked about how like there's a certain type
 of round that is obvious.
 Sometimes obvious is Brett Taylor at the seed,
 but you know, maybe more often it is cursor
 or something like that.
 Like a company that is really working,
 you know, and there's things in the middle,
 there's things past that.
 But as you think about, you know,
 these types of companies ranging
 from completely not obvious to extremely obvious
 and you think about where money is most likely to be made
 and sort of line that up against sort of the dynamic
 we've talked about with, you know,
 Sequoia is able to sort of play a dominant strategy
 of like they can go win the obvious things
 at a very high rate.
 You know, small firms can do different things.
 Where do you think that that leaves
 if you had to, you know, take your best guess
 of where in today's market, like the most alpha exists.
 Like is the winning strategy right now
 to become able to win things?
 Because to this recent point,
 there's the non-obvious feeders,
 but there's more money to be made
 at doing the first obvious round.
 Is it sort of the much later stage stuff
 where actually the $10 billion companies
 look much better than the $1 billion companies
 because, you know, we now live in this world
 where things are gonna get way better than we thought.
 Like what is your current read
 on where the pockets of value are at the moment?
 - I think it's a super interesting question,
 but I don't spend that much energy
 on this question in particular,
 because my orientation is actually just like,
 my taste is my taste and I'm an early stage person.
 I actually think my taste is like pretty mainstream
 in many ways, right?
 Let me contrast this.
 I think we will have opinions on companies
 that other people will not have
 and like we might choose to be earlier or make like,
 it's very hard for me actually to tell
 what the mainstream opinion is, right?
 Because if you remember like the GPT wrapper era
 where like nobody's gonna make any money
 in the application layer and now it's like,
 you're only gonna make money in the application layer.
 - It was great that flipped, very quickly.
 - Yes, exactly.
 And so one thing is like I don't think a lot about,
 I think great investors do this, but not me.
 I don't think a lot about like where is the risk reward
 and like a lot does, like where's the risk reward
 and like the mid stage, the late stage,
 the early stage, because I'm like,
 well, I'm almost gonna think about that.
 - It doesn't matter, I've got my game.
 It doesn't matter what.
 - I am pretty sure being great at early
 is gonna be valuable no matter what.
 And I'm not like globally optimizing, right?
 And then I think your point of view on product
 and people just is what it is.
 I do think that if you think that like you,
 let's say you just want to be able to win
 whatever opportunities you wanna work on,
 then you have to like build your ability to win, right?
 So brand does matter to us.
 - I think there are like seemingly very effective
 alternative strategies, right?
 You can own a particular community.
 He'll hate that I even mentioned his name out loud,
 but I think Zach Frankel is very good at this, right?
 He works with a really small number of people.
 He has good taste, he does well.
 If you look at what Matrix has done,
 the quality of some of Iliya's companies,
 I think what he would say is like,
 hey, we're not here to compete in the like,
 general brand game and put a lot of energy toward that.
 It's not really me, but--
 - But he's in incredible companies.
 - But he's in incredible companies.
 - And did them when times when they weren't obvious?
 - Absolutely.
 There is definitely alpha in choosing
 to be controversial on purpose.
 And like I look at some of his investments
 and I'm like, flock safety, like good on.
 Garrett, that's amazing, but like,
 that didn't make any sense to me when I met it.
 Shame on me, right?
 I was just like, this is a weird company.
 Like cool guy, weird company.
 I think like your taste is what your taste is.
 And we are probably more willing to take technical bets
 and then like go further down the thread of like,
 hey, we have a thesis around this particular area
 or we'll take a bigger slug at something
 then I think one of the benefits of being an early firm
 versus a multi-stage firm is a specific frame
 for one of the best growth firms out there
 is we want to invest in the most important companies
 of tomorrow as early as it's clear
 that they're the emerging market leader.
 But that means you could do it like
 as soon as the company's in traction
 or like right before the IPO, right?
 And because we do not have this luxury
 of like waiting until the market has panned out
 and all the co-gen companies have like fought it out
 and one is waiting at the end
 and then like maybe you're paying a $20 billion entry price
 for it, we're like, we're just gonna choose, right?
 Like whenever we think that company like enterprise value
 can be built, we'll just take the competitive landscape
 as it is.
 - On this point about, you're now running your own thing
 you can sort of, you have the luxury of now
 investing the way you want to invest.
 - Figuring it out.
 - Figuring it as you go.
 But you get to adapt as you see what you like
 and what you think.
 I want to sort of reflect on your learnings
 'cause we're investing in very differently at Greylock
 but they're objectively very successful
 and you worked closely with Ashim
 who as you know is like really different style
 of investing where I saw that people talking about this
 recently that he's like never lost money
 and this is like also not, somebody who's just making
 safe investments, he obviously, he did great stuff
 with that but it's a certain type of investing.
 To me in some ways, what you're doing now
 is maybe opposite is too dramatic
 but it's like quite different.
 Where if that was very linear, very clear,
 he could probably name several companies that ought
 to exist that don't yet and how they might be built,
 you're operating in sort of like the most shifting
 of sort of sands underneath the space.
 And so I'm curious what your reflections are
 going from that experience to now investing this way
 and maybe more interestingly, is there anything
 that despite how different they are,
 is there anything from that that you take to this
 that somebody who hadn't had that Greylock experience
 wouldn't have?
 - So much, I mean like I learned to be an investor
 at Greylock, it is one of the great firms,
 I think Ashim is one of the greats
 and I think having his hit rate on both all three
 of capital preservation, doubles and home runs,
 is like, you know, that's fucking amazing, right?
 What to learn?
 So I think that there are patterns
 of investing that are, like we were talking before
 and you're like, oh it's non-linear,
 I appreciate like linear thinking is clear thinking, right?
 You can follow somebody's pattern of logic.
 And one thing that is like characteristic
 of traditional firms that I think is a very valuable thing
 is your understanding of how an existing market works.
 I think a pattern that's worked really well
 for some investors that spend more time
 on traditional markets is they know the talent base
 in that market, they take security or storage
 as an example, my expires also amazing at this, right?
 And then you, or a Neil Bussery when he was a full-time
 investor, right?
 And it would be like objectively true
 that for any point in time, like the dominant markets
 are incumbent existing markets, right?
 And you just look at what the transitions are
 that are macro technology and then you make the bets
 on the right types of people given that transition
 in an existing market, three check boxes, right?
 I don't know, like you have amazing intuition
 for investing, but like maybe you didn't practice
 this specific thing, seeing the pattern of it.
 And like, let's take an example.
 If you look at the biggest categories of security spend,
 you might say, you know, category one of security spend,
 given the shift to the cloud, how does that change?
 Category one of storage, given the shift to flash
 and the quality of consumer flash
 and the ability to manage that with software,
 how does that change?
 And then who are the right people?
 A lot of those people work at the incumbents.
 I'm not saying that's like all of traditional
 venture investing, but I think there are patterns
 that are really powerful where the existing network
 and the understanding of how those businesses work.
 Like I'm really glad I got to learn a little bit of it
 and try to replicate some of it.
 I do not think that what I'm doing now
 is the opposite of that.
 But again, like venture is like such a, you know,
 companies are an expression of the like personalities
 and taste of founders to a great deal, right?
 And I think venture investing is also a very personal thing.
 Even when you're responding to customer needs,
 it's still like, you know, lattice, it was a lot about you.
 I'm curious about like the things that change most, right?
 And one of the things that made me believe
 that there was actually an opportunity for a new firm
 was that the like AI technology shift
 would actually mean that the most interesting markets
 were not necessarily the markets that already existed.
 Right, like, let's say enterprise infrastructure
 and like systems of record in the high end.
 And I love businesses that look like that, by the way.
 But some of the categories of company
 that we are lucky to be a part of, like they attack markets
 that are not traditionally software markets.
 Harvey in law, Sierra in like actual support work.
 Hagen is doing the work that, you know,
 SMB video agencies did before, or just creating new capability.
 And so I think if you were very traditionally market focused,
 you might not have the time to see them in the same way.
 Are you trying to bring some of the like equivalent
 market linearity to being like, you know,
 you're spending all the time understanding AI right now.
 And you obviously, you know, have spent a lot of time
 just knowing regular business markets.
 Are you trying to intersect those and think like,
 you know, I'm still going to be founder driven,
 but this year I want to find a company doing, you know,
 something in X, Y, Z vertical because like,
 my triangulation is that this should be happening soon.
 Do you do it that way?
 Or are you like following founders and networks?
 - We do both.
 There are a lot of people out there with really good ideas.
 And I think it's like better use of your energy
 as a venture capitalist in general
 to listen to founders ideas, right?
 And just like be educated by them
 and be able to make the right decision when you see it.
 That being said, like, you spend a lot of time
 talking to customers out in the world.
 Like let's say you've ever been an idea person.
 We made one investment in the portfolio
 we haven't announced yet where I like carry around
 my little like set of PowerPoint slides
 trying to convince founders to start this company
 for five years.
 - No luck.
 - Well, we finally found the company.
 - Oh, you got it.
 - Yeah, well, I mean, we didn't convince them
 to start the company, they'd already started the company.
 But I was just like, so thrilled to meet them
 because I was like, no, no, no, stop your presentation.
 Let me show you like, like we believe, right?
 And so I think they're like one of my partners now
 from front of him, Mike are working on like a space
 where they want something to exist.
 And so I think we'll actively go hunt for people
 that we think would be great to start the company.
 Just be like, you should start this company.
 - A couple of times that I've done that
 and put like a little beacon out in the world,
 I have found that like, it does help attract the people
 who are some, it somehow makes the people
 who are working on that more likely to come find you.
 And you're a much more prepared mind when you do it.
 So I do always think I should be spending more time doing this
 than I have been.
 I kind of want to shift into like AI
 and not necessarily like prognosticking about the future,
 but like you do spend your time here.
 And so like I want to try a little bit
 or at least to sort of like hear your thoughts
 on some recent commentary.
 There was like a good quip recently
 that I was like, that's a good reframe
 from Satya talking about like, you know,
 this AGI stuff is great.
 And we should think of it that way,
 but like I'm looking for like seven to 10% growth.
 And I think it was like a soundbite that sort of,
 it did something where I think it sort of changed
 the conversation from like inputs to outputs basically.
 I think it in many ways gets at the overall question
 of just like, is this market big enough for, you know,
 the tens of billions or hundreds of billions
 that's going in from the hyperscalers
 and the hundred billion that's going to go in from VC
 and all other stuff.
 And you think about where we are
 and how you'll see the signs
 that like the outputs are following the inputs.
 Are you thinking of this in a,
 I just want to see, you know, more companies
 that are 50 or 100 million that are durable.
 Are you thinking about something on the intelligence layer?
 Like, what is your frame of mind
 when you see like that kind of thing from Satya?
 - I think it's a super like rationalist decision from Satya.
 I think it is a statement that he does not believe
 that owning a particular lab or research effort
 that gets to a reinforcing fast takeoff
 is going to lead to a lot of economic value capture
 or that the probability of that
 is not worth spending many billions of dollars, right?
 But I think the view of like,
 hey, we're just not seeing enough revenue adoption
 to make $50 billion of capital outlay
 into model training every year worth it for us
 is completely reasonable, right?
 He's responsible in public shareholders.
 I have like a much easier problem,
 which is I am quite sure that there's going to be enough
 economic value created to return a best-in-class venture
 multiple on $200 million.
 The way like we try to stay rational about it,
 but like, I think if you wanted to back up the truck
 and just like only do CapEx Heavy Foundation model companies,
 you just raise a lot more money than we had, right?
 - Yeah.
 - The signals we look for are like actually going back
 to like, what do you take from traditional venture?
 Like, I really like to see revenue.
 One of my companies talks about EBITDA.
 Do you remember EBITDA's very, very exciting concept?
 There are companies that are creating user value
 very rapidly and they're not spending a lot of money
 to do it.
 I think you can be more or less expensive
 as a business to grow, like we'll do both.
 But it's really nice to see that some companies
 are being capital efficient about it.
 - One of the things that I think is interesting
 is that we're back in sort of like 2021
 in a way where like 100 times ARR rounds
 are like not particularly uncommon on things
 that are growing fast and have a reasonable base
 and whatever.
 I remember in 2021 sort of the kind of,
 the general wisdom was hey, we all thought
 there were gonna be X number of $10 billion companies,
 but there's actually gonna be like 10X
 and there's gonna be a lot more $50 billion companies
 than we thought and so on.
 And we all just had like the wrong idea of the size.
 And it now looks like that was like mostly wrong.
 And I think in some ways now we're back to thinking that
 in a way that, at the moment at least feels more right,
 that could change in the future.
 But like, are we still investing,
 even at the early stages in ways that require
 there to be a lot more $10 billion companies
 than there like ever have been?
 And like, are we collectively betting on that?
 - Absolutely.
 And I think it will be true.
 Like let's talk about the mechanism of action
 when like people thought this in the SAFs world, right?
 I think some of it ended up being in like speak up
 'cause you actually did this, but you know,
 as an analyst, right?
 Some of it ended up being true.
 More people than ever before, like in businesses
 got to consume software for their business
 because it became cheaper to use
 because you didn't have to like buy package software
 and operate it because it filled
 many more functional gaps, right?
 And because you had internet distribution, right?
 You got cheaper to actually sell to people.
 That's how I like think about like,
 oh, why should we have more SaaS?
 - The thing that I think the market got wrong
 or one of the things that the market got wrong
 was there was not infinite ability
 to like cross-sell more software into the organization
 in any segment of business, right?
 SMBs, mid-market, enterprise businesses.
 - And enough became enough at some point.
 - Enough became enough.
 And like they didn't want to buy any more darn SaaS
 and there was just a limit to budget
 and a limit to consumption.
 And like, that seems rational, right?
 Like in contrast, well,
 that seems rational in retrospect.
 I'm sure we're wrong about something else with AI now.
 In contrast, I have poo-pooed on generally
 working in healthcare tech for a long time,
 not because of lack of interest,
 but I'm just like, okay,
 I was one of like three people at Greylock
 that 10 years ago got staffed
 to like go look at digital health.
 And we looked and it was like not,
 it was not a good look, right?
 You want to sell to providers, it was slow,
 there wasn't much budget,
 it just didn't change the business that much.
 I now sit on the board of the healthcare provider tech
 company and it's growing really fast
 and there are other companies who are growing really fast.
 I think that people just didn't build stuff
 that was worth buying enough for a long time.
 And like, you know, it's sort of mimetic now
 to say like AI eats services.
 But I think if you just like think about the value provided,
 it is not necessarily like service industries,
 it's just technology does way more.
 And your willingness to pay as a consumer
 or as a business for these things that you like,
 again, like could have been part of your job
 being done for review, could be a legal service,
 could be like the skill to be creative,
 could be education, like those were different budgets.
 - Yep, what's interesting on that point
 that makes sense to me now why it's happening,
 but I'm not sure how it plays out over time
 is at the moment agents for lack of, you know,
 different term are replacing labor instead of software.
 And so the price that they're comping to is labor.
 And so instead of SaaS being, you know,
 a hundred bucks a year, 200 bucks a year
 for a person's seat.
 An agent can be like, oh, it's 40 K a year,
 which is way cheaper than your software engineers
 or way cheaper than your accountants.
 You know, you're gonna save 70 K a year
 by just giving us 40 per agency.
 And so there's this very strong pricing potential
 that you can have.
 - Yeah.
 - And that seems, at least at the moment,
 like it could be rooted in sort of the existing paradigm,
 but in the future, does that pricing stay,
 you know, as competition goes?
 And so that's one thing that I, you know,
 and I say this to somebody who's like investing
 in companies, building agents,
 but I'm like wondering how that ought to play out
 because it's like, well, this eventually priced relative
 to like cost and like an appropriate margin,
 or like it happened to used to be done by people.
 So we're just gonna kind of peg to that forever.
 - I think generally there'll be like,
 absolutely very strong pricing pressure.
 And I really think about like,
 what is the basis of competition?
 Some number of years from now.
 If you have a unique offering
 where the customer really wants what you are offering,
 and I think like people don't really know
 what like the most with agents will be,
 but like let's assume, you know,
 there is uniqueness in some set of offerings.
 Like if your Figma pricing pressure is different
 than if you are one of many different companies,
 like people just want specifically Figma,
 there's nothing quite like it, right?
 And your team is in it, and you're gonna use it.
 So I think there's some set of companies
 that will end up with that dynamic,
 and they will be able to retain
 some sort of value-based pricing.
 And then I think like the majority of companies
 will probably gravitate toward like,
 you know, cost of compute or energy or intelligence plus.
 - Yep.
 - Yep.
 - But like I have no idea what hell on that takes.
 Right now, like I basically think a lot of it
 ends up getting pushed to consumer
 and business surplus as it should.
 Right now, it's just like, wow,
 this surplus is so good,
 even if it's, you know, a third of the cost of an engineer.
 - It's sort of interesting,
 'cause it felt to me like for a while, you know,
 before AI, it felt like in order to come up
 with a good idea,
 you had to be like kind of non-consensus.
 At the moment, it feels like there's actually a lot
 of ideas that are both like consensus and right.
 And then the reality is then you get like, you know,
 a lot of competition and it floods,
 and they kind of all do really well.
 So I'm curious to see how it like plays out,
 but there's a few of these spaces like support
 and code gen and these things where it's like,
 everybody knows it's working.
 They are indeed all working, and you know,
 that's just not even close to the market demand yet.
 - The last topic I was curious to get your thoughts on
 are that there was a good post about like agency
 being more important than intelligence now.
 And, you know, intelligence is like abundant,
 and so like the thing that's left is agency,
 which I want to believe this, you know,
 that like that's the model of the world,
 and that like, you know, they'll never come
 for our like, you know, agency.
 And we'll see if that's true or not.
 But I'm curious, as you've talked,
 you spend a lot more time, you know,
 than you probably ever have with AI researchers,
 and you think about this.
 So I guess, do you see it that way?
 Do you agree that like agency is going to be
 the sort of like last human resource?
 And then like, do you think if so,
 does that like impact the way that you think at all
 about like the types of founders you're investing in?
 - I'd focus on being hot and funny.
 - That's good.
 That's high-aged, you know?
 - I don't know if I have like a good answer
 to this question.
 I guess I never particularly thought
 like intelligence was enough anyway, right?
 And so like when like, it sure helps, right?
 When you think about the founders that we select,
 like without being over a particular bar,
 like all other things considered,
 like of course we're gonna back people
 who are really, really smart.
 I was on this campaign at my prior firm
 to try to be more specific about how we talk about people.
 Because it's like very easy to say like,
 oh, the person is special, and what does that mean?
 - The thing that we most look for
 is besides intelligence is kind of like force of will
 and the ability to like take a point of view
 and be right, right?
 And so I don't know what that is.
 Like maybe AI is gonna have better predictive power
 than founders about the future of different markets
 at some point.
 Like the ability to generally navigate the world
 and shape it to what you want.
 Like I don't know if that's how you think of agency,
 but like that doesn't feel in grasp
 of pure intelligence anytime soon.
 - You have three kids like me.
 Are you thinking about their education at all
 or what you think they need to learn
 or what you're teaching them?
 You know, and just as you're thinking about
 what's obviously happening now?
 - Of course I am.
 I don't know if I'm more like doing anything about it.
 Our kids are young enough that like I think about
 like behaviors as much as like knowledge for now, right?
 Like frustration management.
 The ability to concentrate, right?
 The ability to upscale yourself in something.
 I think those are gonna be important no matter what.
 For now, like maybe if you just assume
 that like information retrieval will get better.
 Andre Carpathi like is very convinced
 that you still want to build like certain types
 of reasoning pathways in kids brains
 before they get too much older.
 And the like purest forms of reasoning
 are essentially like STEM reasoning, which is funny
 because we seem to be making like very good progress
 on coding and STEM reasoning in these models today.
 But I still think like the ability
 to like structure a logical problem, decompose it
 and debug it like that, that seems useful.
 And your ability to use even all of these tools
 will be better off for your ability
 to do structured reasoning.
 And that seems like, you know, there's a reason,
 you know, mathematicians don't tend to prove a lot
 like after the age of 25 or some really sad number.
 Like those pathways get built.
 I guess I like subscribe to that pretty mainstream view,
 but I also think like I am willing to be like very flexible
 about what education looks like for them.
 10 years from now, like if it's not Stanford
 it might not be, you know, traditional education, right?
 - I will start, thanks for doing this.
 I really appreciate it.
 - It was so fun to hang out.
 (upbeat music)
