
You've noticed a significant shift in how SEO works with the rise of AI answers being integrated into search results.
Transparently, I thought this was going to be an apocalypse.
Up until AI overviews, whoever won on that long-form piece of content would get that first click, but now that doesn't exist anymore.
What should people do to be successful in this new paradigm?
Think of SEO as a product.
The product managers are the people that should be thinking about this SEO question because it's a product question.
The product people need to think about how do we position this to the user that is not going to find out about this from a social channel?
That's not going to be attracted by an ad.
This is a user that's doing their own self-discovery journey.
If you can't answer the question about what is it that someone's going to do a search on, then don't do SEO.
To a lot of people, SEO is kind of this dark art.
It is not a dark art.
It is simple.
I think step one is the step that almost everyone misses on SEO, which is...
Today, my guest is Eli Schwartz.
Eli is a growth advisor specializing in SEO and has helped companies like Quora, Coinbase, Tinder, LinkedIn, WordPress, and Zapier develop and execute their SEO strategies.
He's also the author of Product Let SEO and has a very refreshing take on how to think about SEO and win at SEO.
Recently, he's been spending a lot of his time analyzing how SEO changes with the rise of LLM chatbots, Google giving you the answers straight in the search results, and also how to utilize AI in your SEO strategy.
In this episode, we dive deep into everything that you need to know to be successful in this new AI paradigm.
As Eli shares in the conversation, Google is just now rolling out changes to how search works and is greatly increasing how many searches include an AI-generated answer at the top of the search results.
So things are going to start shifting under our feet pretty quickly.
If you're at all thinking about SEO, working on SEO, or are just curious about how search is evolving, this episode is for you.
If you enjoy this podcast, don't forget to subscribe and follow it on your favorite podcasting app or YouTube.
It's the best way to avoid missing future episodes, and it helps the podcast tremendously.
With that, I bring you Eli Schwartz.
Eli, thank you so much for being here. Welcome to the podcast.
It's a real honor to be here. You've had some amazing guests and I'm honored to be counted as one of them.
It's completely my honor. You've been working on SEO for a long time. You've been helping companies figure out how to win at SEO for a long time over a decade.
And we were chatting about what's happening in SEO, and you told me that you've noticed a significant shift in how SEO works with the rise of LLM's, with the rise of AI answers being integrated into search results.
And so I thought it'd be awesome just to spend an entire episode talking about what people need to know, about what's changing SEO, and how to be successful in this new paradigm of SEO with LLM's and AI being prevalent.
How does that sound to you?
That's an awesome idea. I really like what's happening with AI in general for SEO, because it's causing everyone that cares about SEO traffic, whether that's a PM or that's a CMO or that's a CEO, to really be forced into pivoting their thinking
about what SEO traffic means, because the tactics around SEO haven't really changed. It's always been the exact same thing.
When I was my last full-time job was I was survey monkey, and I was moonlighting on the side, and I was introduced to CEO of a big company, and they were asking me about my approach to SEO, and I wanted to close it.
I wanted to get consulting engagement, and the CEO says to me, "So essentially what you're telling me is I need to find my keywords, put that into content, and then build some links.
Is there anything else you're going to do for me? Why should I pay you?"
And it's done to me into silence, because essentially that is and was SEO, and then that forced me to really pivot my thinking around what SEO might be, and I pivoted my thinking, and I've talked to worked with many companies around
how they should think about SEO, and what SEO traffic should mean, but others have not, because those tactics did work, and LLMs and AI in general is forcing people to think, "Again, how should SEO work? How should I be driving business from the Search channel?"
This episode is brought to you by Pendo, the only all-in-one product experience platform for any type of application.
Tired of bouncing around multiple tools to uncover what's really happening inside your product?
With all the tools you need, in one simple to use platform, Pendo makes it easy to answer critical questions about how users are engaging with your product, and then turn those insights into action, also you can get your users to do what you actually want them to do.
First, Pendo is built around product analytics, seeing what your users are actually doing in your apps, so that you can optimize their experience.
Next, Pendo lets you deploy in-app guides that lead users through the actions that matter most.
Then, Pendo integrates user feedback, so that you can capture and analyze what people actually want.
And the new thing in Pendo, session replays, a very cool way to visualize user sessions.
I am not surprised at all that over 10,000 companies use it today.
Visit pendo.io/lenny to create your free Pendo account today, and start building better experiences across every corner of your product.
Yes, you want to take your product, let it know how a step further?
Check out Pendo's lineup of free certification courses, led by talk product experts, and designed to help you grow in advance in your career.
Learn more and experience the power of the Pendo platform today at pendo.io/lenny.
This episode is brought to you by Brave Search.
Brave Search is the private, independent search engine that doesn't buy us or censor results.
Brave Search and its answers with AI feature are available for free to all users on desktop and mobile devices.
With Brave Search, you get real answers faster, served from their own independent index of the web.
Their AI search engine can give lightning-fast, incredibly accurate results for almost any question.
But Brave isn't just AI answers, it's also a powerful traditional search engine with real innovations versus big tech options.
It fights bias and SEO spam, it brings a cleaner results page with fewer ads,
Reddit threads in the search engine results page, powerful local results, and even community-driven ranking options.
Tired of big tech's same old list of links? It's time to try Brave Search.
Visit brave.com/lenny to get started. That's brave.com/lenny.
So just to set a little foundation, talk about just what is it that's changing
in search in an SEO with the rise of AI answers and LMs?
So essentially, Google and other tech companies had their hand forced by OpenAI and ChachiBT.
So Google has claims to have invented the concept of LMs and they may or may not have in some of the early OpenAI employees or Google employees.
But ChachiBT came on the scene at the end of 2022 with this ability to ask any question and then get a written out answer.
And suddenly, people were like, "Well, I don't need a Google and click all these results."
So there's started this conversation of, "You don't need Google anymore. Google is ending."
Even more than that, you don't need SEO. No one's going to—you don't need to optimize anything because all the entire world will just be given to you.
We'll dig into that. I don't think that's at all correct. And I don't think anyone, whether you're doing SEO as your full-time job,
whether you're receiving SEO traffic as a part of one of your primary marketing channels, I don't think anybody has to worry about that.
However, Google was worried about it. And I think one of Google's primary stakeholders is really Wall Street.
So if Wall Street suddenly thinks that Google is a has-been company and they're not interesting anymore and they don't want to maintain investments in them,
their stock price goes down. And that hurts Google's ability to recruit employees. It hurts Google's ability to raise money and invest in all the interesting stuff they do.
So Google has to satisfy the curiosity and interests of the general world and general investor by saying, "Oh, that open AI thing? We can do it too. That's not that big of a deal."
So then Google responded badly, of course, first by launching what was then barred. So they said, "Open, chat GBT. Look, we've got our own version."
And they did a public demo and didn't work out well at all. And their stock price actually went down. And then they fixed it and then their stock price went up.
But they also had to have an answer to this concept of is search dying. Does anyone need to search anymore when the entire world can just be given to you?
So they launched what at the time they called SGE, Search Generative Experience, which is essentially chat GBT in a search result.
So they launched that, but they launched it as a beta. And there were huge issues with what they were doing there because there's monetization issues.
They monetize, I mean, everything they do comes from ads. The majority of their revenue comes from ads.
So if you're going to show this AI answer on a search result, then you also can't have ads. You need to go all in on one of them.
That was one issue, which they actually have not solved yet. Another issue they had was liability.
So if they have a generative response that tells you to do something awful, like I think there was one where it may or may not have been fake.
There are a lot of people who made some fake ones that told you to jump off the Golden Gate Bridge.
Are there liability concerns? Because Google now is the publisher. They're not a search engine that told you how to find out the answer to that.
They told you to do it themselves. And the third issue there, which is another liability concern, is it plagiarism?
So those are the things that they worried about. So they took about a year to test this thing, which was fascinating because we're tech people and most of the listeners are tech people.
Google is very much a launch fast kind of company. They reveal something and then it sort of rolls out very, very quickly.
They're not the kind of company that says, "We're going to launch something and then they take a year to do it."
So AI overviews, what was then called Search General Experience, launched at Google I/O this past year, in May of this past year, and they renamed it to AI overviews.
And it's that. It's essentially chat GBT in a search result. They launched it to Great Fanfare. Of course, it was live right away.
They said it was only going to be logged in users only in the US. Obviously, they always have concerns about launching things in Europe.
It's a little bit more litigious than the US. And once they launched it, suddenly, they started getting these screenshots of Google told me to jump off the Golden Gate Bridge, Google told me to put glue on my pizza, which is, of course, Google didn't do that.
They just crawled things from around the web. I'm surprised that Google didn't predict that because the exact same thing happened with chat GBT and Google is much bigger and a much more interesting target for people that want to share those things in social media.
So Google launches it and that was a little bit embarrassing. So they rolled it back somewhat. But what's even more interesting is they've given up on this rollback or not given up.
They've gone back into it and they've relaunched it. And now it's on so many more search results. I'm seeing it on most of the search results that I see.
And on top of that, it's now on non-logged in users are seeing it. So incognito users were users without any history. Google are seeing it and they've just launched it in the UK.
So this thing is coming and it's really going to be affecting search results to maybe help people understand why this may impact SEO. If it's not obvious, is it pushes results down?
People get the answer right there. They don't have to click your links. And then there's also the sponsored links at the top of the page that are ready or pushing you down. So basically, your stuff is harder and harder to find.
Actually, it's not that it's harder to find. Your stuff becomes less relevant. And that's the part about SEO that I'm excited about. So SEO was exactly like that CEO said to me years ago, it's just about creating some content.
And then it's just like this sort of this race to the top of getting your ranking results on that top keyword.
So years ago, I worked at a startup where we were in the automotive space and we wrote content about cars and a word we like to rank on was cars. We bought, we wrote the homepage was ranked for the word cars. We bought tons of links and we were just a cars website.
Obviously, that's not something anybody could expect to do now because you don't search like that. You don't search. Oh, I need to buy a vehicle. I'm going to use the word cars and sort of see what comes up because cars means a lot of things.
Cars is a movie. Cars is a kind of car you drive. Cars could be a go cart. It could be a lot of things. So no one's going to think about those search results.
However, SEO still geared towards those top of funnel, those big keywords that people cared the most about. So now a lot of those keywords are going to be moving into these AI overviews.
And I don't want to just focus on Google, although I think Google is going to own the entire search page forever, never, for at least for a very long time.
But other engines, whether it's perplexity, whether it's cloud or whether it's meta, they're all have this opportunity to give AI overview type responses that I think those top of funnel kind of queries.
Are a great fit for what's going to come out as an answer. So if you're looking to go on vacation and you want to beach vacation, you can ask a very explicit question about give me a beach vacation that is not in America, but is a two hour flight from X airport.
That's the kind of thing that you could do in a Google search, but would take you a very long time to do. And those are great answers from just getting a paragraph. And then from there, you move into the mid funnel.
So now you do this query, and Google suggests to you that you should go to Ken Coon, or sorry, not Google, but whatever that answer is suggest to you that you should go to Ken Coon.
And now you're sort of in the mid funnel. And that's where SEO begins to matter. So the reason why I think this disruption is so big is because the journey changes, the discovery changes.
So whereas before, if you were a travel site, you were able to rank on a best beach, best beach vacation within two hours of the United States, that's your ranking result. And then you have your long piece of content, and you have your ads, and you can monetize that.
That all changes when you can still rank number one on that, but you're all the way at the bottom of the page, the AI answer, whoever that's from, whether it's again from chat GBT or Google, tells you where to now start doing your deeper search.
So just to maybe mirror back what you're saying is the discovery step of search is going to be swallowed up by LLMs that give you a direction.
And then once you have a sense of what you want, then you go back to Google, and that's where potentially the opportunity continues to remain.
Absolutely. And I think that's where things are good. And that's where I'm excited by the user experience for search, because I don't think the user was best served by,
I don't know, US news or Forbes writing out where the best beach vacations are within two hours in the United States, with that piece of content that was written by a freelancer who's not a travel expert.
So now you're going to get that information also from not a travel expert. You're going to get an AI summarized answer, and that will give you more clues and more ideas to do a deeper research search.
And I think that's where the user's best served. Okay, this is fascinating. Let's definitely spend more time there. So people understand exactly what that means before we get into what people in that and what people should do to win here.
What impact have you seen on SEO and search results and the space of SEO as these things have rolled out? Have you seen numbers of like this is declining? This is growing.
Transparently, I thought this was going to be a apocalypse. So I shared about a year ago that is going to be an apocalypse. We have not seen it yet. And a lot of people are declaring victory that there's no apocalypse, because we have not seen it yet.
However, this thing just launched in a way that I think it will start impacting traffic. So prior to the last couple weeks,
there was not available on logged out search. It was only on logged in search. And even more than that, on that logged in search, Google had rolled it back significantly because those embarrassing things that happened in May and June when they first launched it.
They're only just now launching it broader. And I do think we're going to see impacts. Of course, another challenge with pinpointing and impacts is their rolling algorithm updates that are happening, which we'll also talk about.
And that will sort of mask what's happening, because if you've been hit by an algo update and suddenly you recover from the algo update, you'll see more traffic, but you might have seen more traffic, but on a lower base because these AI overviews are changing things.
So I think if you take all those steps back and you look at this from a journey perspective, there's no way that it won't be impacting search.
It's just going to be hard to find. And there'll be certain examples where it is extremely prevalent. And there'll be others where it won't impact things at all.
And I think the dividing line is the journey. We're in the funnel that user is. So if you are WebMD and you're writing content about the human body, just generic content that has existed since medical journals were created.
AI overviews are going to be fantastic at giving you that answer. You know, you read up, you know, you have a headache and you just like, well, this headache's not going away. Should I take more Advil or should I take a nap?
And then you find that WebMD article and you get to like page six and it tells you that, you know, 0.2% of people out of a headache actually have a brain tumor.
And you don't need that anymore because Google can tell you you're good. You should take a nap and drink some more water.
And you know, WebMD was competing with Healthline and other Cleveland Clinic and Dallas Clinic and all these other hospitals and it's totally unnecessary to go and look at all these results and go through six pages of information about headaches.
So a site like that will be impacted by AI overviews. An e-commerce site, maybe not. It depends where in the funnel that user is.
As you're talking, I was reminded of something that I forgot about with my own experience. I used to have a website called whenishonicathisyear.com
because it changes every year and it just is just the date. That was the whole website. It gives you the date of Honica this year.
And I put ads on there and it made like 10 bucks a year. And then Google came in and just gave you a freaking answer right inside the search result.
So I've experienced this.
So it's even more than that. So what you're referencing is structured data.
So that's a very easy thing for Google to tell you when is Honica in 150 years from now? It's in a data set.
Yeah. What's happening now is Google's taking this unstructured data from content and building it into structured data.
So you could ask a question of like, what is the likelihood of a baby needing to go to the hospital because they're showing this sort of symptom?
And again, instead of reading all that content and making a decision, Google could take all that unstructured data and not just Google can chat JBT or
Claude can take all that unstructured data and give you a statistic based on everything they've read.
And that's very helpful to users. And I think again, users benefit and then a user might find out there's another piece of information where I'd actually like to read a medical paper
Or that now I'd like to Google and find the closest doctor to me with certain hours. That's a Google search. That's not an LLM AI search.
Yeah, just to clarify, I didn't intend to say that that was a recent
That was AI oriented. That happened like a decade ago. So yeah, I totally
Well, I just thought that was that was interesting to really drill into the difference between structured and structured
Because unstructured is actually where Google is disrupting everything. So this entire idea of SEO get up until 2022
Was monetize unstructured data. Whoever wrote the longest piece of content on best beach hotels in Miami
And then built the best links to it. They would win. They win whether it's ads or win whether it's hotel bookings
Now google can start you off at the top of that and say these are the best beach hotels based on all the people that have written content
We're actually google's own
Unstructured data from their reviews and give you that and then you can say, okay, I'd like to go to this hotel
Or I'd like to stay in this city
So help us help us understand even deeper this distinction between top of funnel
And mid funnel so when people are maybe winning at one of the other what does that look like?
What are some examples of like here's a top of funnel type of search that google is going to eat
And here's a mid funnel experience that you can win that
So in general seo has always been more
At the top of the funnel generally because you're curious about something. So let's say you're you're looking for a new software
You're looking for new podcasting software. So you you search for top podcast tools
And you get back a list on let's say g2
So g2 is another g2 and all the sites like g2 like the gardener sites like capterra
All going to be massively disrupted
So you would get back a list from g2 which would give you out all the software
And you look at some and it would say this one's geared towards enterprise
This one's geared towards small podcasters
This one's free and then you have you now you've narrowed down your list to these three tools
And that's when you start doing those searches now you're mid funnel
Now let's say you've chosen riverside
And you've gotten enough information from those other searches now you start searching riverside price
Riverside capacity riverside bandwidth right though. That's bottom of funnel and that's where you'll now go by riverside
However, at the top you're doing top podcast tools
So again up until aio reviews up until this entire concept of llm
Whoever won on that long form piece of content
Would get that first click but now that doesn't exist anymore. You just go to google and google tells you
These are the tools. Oh, you're looking for a new crm
This is what a crm is you want to know do you need a crm or do you just need a calendar?
Look at that and google will just tell you in a paragraph and now you've redirected your search somewhere else into middle of the funnel
So I think that's where seo always should have been
Because that's where conversions could potentially happen
However seo never was there before because the way most seo measures its performance and its success is rankings
So they would say well, it doesn't really matter if we convert on the word crm
But look we're number one. So we're winning first of all as a user. This sounds great
Uh, I'm like so tired of just all search results just being a bunch of seo pages
Just with a bunch of bs answers and so I really
Prefer google just tell me just tell me what I need to know
The other piece is if you really think about google has been trying to do it
Like they've been trying to do this is like here's our best shot at giving you an answer to this question and here's links that'll
Point you to an answer and this is just a better version of it where it takes all the actual information and just gives you the end result
So it makes a ton of sense. They're doing this and the technology has finally allowed them to do this
Okay, so let's get to the I don't know 64 thousand dollar question million dollar question. What should people do?
What should people do to be successful in this new paradigm?
That as you're describing is like in motion like it's just starting to now happen and it may be
People catching people off guard because they thought it's already been out and things are okay
And you're saying it's actually starting to actually move quicker
I think it's fascinating. I'm honored to be one of the few marketers on your product podcast
But I think of I think of seo as a product
And I think the product managers are the people that should be thinking about this seo question
Because it's a product question. It's there are users that are coming in from the search channel
What is the product that I need to create for them? What is the experience that I need to create for them?
So typically was thought of as a marketing challenge of the product people have created this thing for me
And now I expect the marketers to go and do the seo thing for it, but there's a mismatch
So for example, I find very often when I talk to sass companies
I don't think sass in general should do seo but very often when I talk to sass companies
They have created a product for whatever user
And then the marketers are expect to make that
Product fit into the thing that the search results are around and it doesn't work
Because that's not what they're looking for. No one asked the question of what it is that they're looking for
So now that seo is changing and you really need to think about this mid funnel
And you need to think about a user experience and a buyer experience when they're doing the search
I think it all comes together and this is where the product people now need to think about
How do we position this to the user that is not going to find out about this
From a social channel the user that's not going to be attracted by an ad the user that's not going to discover this tool from a trade show
This is a user that's doing their own self discovery journey
And this is what is what is the thing they're looking for and how do we position this product in a way that they're going to find it
So that's what
Everyone should be doing product really collaborating with marketing and discovering
What is it that the user wants and showcasing that now?
I was recently talking to a company in a health space. They have an app. It's a health app
And we talked about their marketing their marketing what their seo in general was they write thousands and thousands of blog posts
AI has allowed them to do things they should never have done
They write thousands of blog posts about health in general
And then they wanted me to because I told them they shouldn't do that in general
But they wanted me to experience their product so they gave me a code to download their app and their app is awful
It's a bad product. So they're trying to do marketing that doesn't fit for a product that doesn't do the thing they say it's going to do
They if they fix the product and understand the user now it becomes well if i'm a user looking for this product
What are they looking for? How do we showcase that again in the mid funnel?
Can you help us make this even more real maybe go through an example of a product you worked on or one that's doing this really well
In terms of going from they have a they want our product. What's the journey look like? What's a good example of that?
So the earliest example of where I sort of discovered on this process was like at us about 10 years ago
I met the the CEO of zapier wafoster
and he was a
coworker mine had invested in his company and he asked me to meet with him to just discuss seo
They were doing something that no one needed
They they had this product which zapped things together, but no one needed because they didn't know it existed
But people knew that they needed things to work together. They just weren't looking for zapier
So we in my discussions with them in our seo experiments that we came up with we said well people are looking for let's say gmail
And they're looking for sales force
They know that gmail doesn't connect to sales force. They know sales force doesn't connect to gmail
But they're looking for ways to pair it together
So what if we created as a product a marketing way to showcase that this product of zapping gmail to sales force and sales force to gmail
Exists and that's what we did. So we built that at scale for everything that could work
And that was the experiment I did with them where everything would be available
And it creates this flywheel of wow if gmail can work with sales force
What else does gmail work with? Can it work with this other tool I have and that's it again early example where I stumbled upon this idea of
People are looking for that other thing that you could do showcase the fact that your product could do this thing
Uh, I had no idea that you were involved in zapir's seo work. That's one of the most legendary successes of seo. So
Uh very cool
Total accidental like whenever people ask me about programmatic seo and I know we have to dig into that what programmatic seo is
They're like, I want to imitate zapir. So that was it's always great to mention that I helped through that
That's amazing. Okay. So the lesson there is you realize that the key you need like the opportunities to
Teach people what they could accomplish with this product like there's this awesome product doing amazing things
They have a need they're searching for say it's like gmail and sales force and how do we help them see there's something really interesting?
Yeah, I actually have a better one for you great. Uh, let's do it
So I worked with tinder for a couple of years and I worked with you know when we talk
One of the biggest challenges I've ever had with with seo especially as a consultant is getting things done
And I worked with amazing companies and there's great people, but then they run into this wall
So like in in my book. I talk about one of the earlier stories. I had to this where I worked to the company
We're I worked with I was hired by the cmo
And we built out a great plan and then we go to the seo who brings in the cto
To discuss our plan and the cto says on i have engineers for this
So you decide whether you want to fork you work on the product
We want to work on this marketing thing you've done and then we just do anything because they never resourced it
But I work with this really great product person at tinder booty milo. He was the chief of growth
And he really saw a problem where tinder had never done seo all of tinders inbound came from the word tinder
And he's like there there has to be upside for seo if they've never done it before
So
That he was convinced of that and he was willing to drive forward on this idea
So when we started working together the first thing we came up with is what is someone going to be searching?
When they look for a tinder and it's not online dating. That's a single word
We're not going to write out long-form content around everything related to dating because that's that's not the tinder product
You're not reading a piece of content about how to fall in love and then somehow converting into tinder
But in our user research and in the discussions we had on what the investment we can make into seo was
We discovered that tinder is a loneliness solving problem loneliness solving solution
So you're lonely. You've gone to a new city. You don't know anybody. You'd like to solve your loneliness problem
So because you're in a new city it occurred to us that this is a local thing
So we're going to look for anything related to local. So what you built out
Is if you look for online dating in many cities around the world, and this is beta
It, you know, it remained in its beta state
But if you look for online dating in many cities around the world
You're going to find a tinder page
Which gives some examples of places you can go on a date and more than that
It gives you tinder as a solution to solve the loneliness problem you have
So what changes here with the rise of AI overviews and things like that? Is it this is where
This is how
Future of seo looks versus just keywords and endless block posts
Actually, nothing changes here with AI reviews because if you're looking for you've gone to do buy
You've just you've gone to do buy as a brand new country. You've never been there before and you're lonely
So you look for online dating and do buy and you're going to get you know again
AI overviews might tell you with what the dating scene is like it might tell you where to go on great dates
However, it doesn't allow you to solve the loneliness problem you have
The loneliness problem you have is a mid or bottom of funnel problem
You're still going to click on tinders result. No matter what the AI overview does
So that's where I think seo should be is you need to be in the buyer journey with the seo you're creating
And it doesn't matter what AI overviews does or doesn't do because you're still solving the mid funnel problem with your seo solution
Let's go in a direction. I was going to say for later, but it might be useful now
Which is say somebody's just sitting there at their desk thinking
Hey, I want to I want to be six. I want to start doing some seo
I want to be successful seo. I haven't really done a ton here
at with this new world of AI and lms what would be step one step two step three to move down a direction of starting to
Poke their toe in the water of seo
I think step one is the step that almost everyone misses on seo
Which is be the user
Try to understand who your user is and there's been so many companies and serving monkey was a great example
One I spent seven years of survey monkey and when everyone got onboarded at survey monkey
They gave you a survey monkey account and told you that you should run a survey
I think later in the later years they forced everyone in their onboarding time to use a survey run a survey with people in the company
But before that no one did so they had this account and they never did a survey
So they had zero customer empathy for why people use the tool
And then when you think about it from a product and marketing standpoint, you're thinking about it as a work challenge
rather than a customer empathy challenge
So the first thing anybody should really do
Around
Anything that they're trying to do seo is try to be that customer
So if i'm a user of this sass i'm building sass and I want to I want to market this tool
What is a user going to look for? What's the problem? They're going to look for
That would make them want to do a search and yeah earlier
I referenced that I don't think most sass tools should do seo and the reason is because a lot of times when I talk to sass
Companies about seo I ask them this question and they give me a blank stare
So if you can't answer the question about what is it that someone's going to do a search on then don't do seo
Because seo is about appealing to that user
If you can understand what the user should do around
Looking for whatever product you have
Then that's the first step for seo. So who is this user? Who am I marketing to your sort of creating this persona in your mind
Step two is think about the asset you're going to create so pivoting over to what he talks about tinder
So we understood that it was a user that was solving a loneliness problem any in the world
Because that's what tinder does it solves that loneliness problem in any way you want of course
And now we had to think about what is it that we're going to create we know it
It should be global of course
We would know we want it to be programmatic which is something we should dig into like different programmatic versus editorial
We know we want to be programmatic because no one wants to be a position of writing a page out for every town or every city or
Every neighborhood in the entire world
So we want it to be programmatic what things do we need to pull into that?
And then the third step is really building and we're on a product podcast of course to the product people
You're building the product for that seo user. So where do you get those inputs?
What does this page need to look like?
So there again the reason I think seo needs to be on product is because the inputs for seo
Aren't the way many people think of seo which is a piece of content optimized for google based on the keywords i've chosen
I think of it as a product which means you need design resources you need engineering resources
Of course, you need a product manager to really oversee the building of this you need user research
So it's again more than just a piece of content. So we're going through the steps again
It's understand who your user is decide what it is that you need to create for that user and the third is
Envision this product. So I think there's a really powerful point here that might be people might not get which is
The user needs to be thinking of something they will go to google to search for to find your product
So it's if they're if nobody is searching
For the thing that you're building in some way
There is not going to be an opportunity for you to win an seo or in benefit from seo
Is there any examples that come to mind to you of b2b sas companies that just like this is not there's no seo opportunity here
Just like no one searching for this thing
most of them
I wanted my first consulting clients right when I left serving monkey was mixed panel
So I I mean
I just left my job and i'm going to take any client that I have I have some awful clients that I took but mixed panel was not an awful client
It was just an eye opening client
Where we're trying to do seo and i'm doing seo and exactly the way that seo had told me seo should work and he's going to do it himself
So I told him the keywords. We came up with the content. We built the links. We did all the stuff seo is supposed to do and it didn't work
And we were sitting there and and I asked them to like show me the user journey like they have a tool that does it
That's what mixed panel does like so
Someone clicks on a search result and they land on this piece of content, which we did research and we know people look for
But why is it that it doesn't convert and then I realized that there were other problems to this conversion which is
Mixed panel is a product you integrate in your entire company
You don't just do a quick google for it and be like, oh analytics. Yeah, i'm going to tell everyone we got to do it
And it's going to be live tomorrow also mixed panels expensive
So again, it's the kind of thing that there's friction of you don't just click from a search result
And then decide to just purchase it. You can't even purchase it on your credit card. I don't believe
so
Those are the issues and that's why I think sass is not the best fit for seo because if you think about that journey
The problem doesn't necessarily exist the sass solves the problem
But only once you know that problem exists and getting people to know that problem exists is typically not an seo challenge
It's typically a brand challenge
You know you make a viral video of you didn't realize that you could use this tool we've created to solve your problem
But no one is necessarily searching for a problem. They didn't know they had or a solution. They didn't know could exist
so
That's that's where the break office and then the other issue of course is now they know the problem exists
But it's not an seo journey
So I had another eye opening experience
Early in covid when I was you know, everyone was home and there wasn't a lot of things to do
Google reached out to me about it a role on their team on google cloud for doing seo
Wouldn't seem like an interesting thing to go through a hiring loop and stay at home
So I it was at a fascinating experience interviewing because every time the the first
It was the hiring manager and every time of someone on that team that that started the interview
They said are there any questions that you have for me and then I spent the next 45 minutes asking them all the questions
Like why are you doing seo? What kind of keywords would you want to do?
What does this seo journey look like because for google cloud?
They only have two competitors amazon and microsoft and no one is going to do a search and be like oh google's number one for this term
I searched let me just go buy it
There's a there's a decision-making process you bring there's a committee decision
So seo sort of made no sense for that even to be included as a part of a marketing channel and you know at a grand scale
Google cloud should not be doing seo at a small scale a lot of sass tools shouldn't be doing seo because there isn't necessarily an seo journey
I get a lot of pushback from companies when I tell them they're like look at all the seo we've done
But that plateau is really quickly
This is really fascinating and just to maybe reframe what you're saying because there's kind of a couple elements of this
It's not necessarily that people aren't searching google for the problem. So i'm thinking of like vanta sock to stuff
It's not like people aren't
Sock to certification. It's not like they're searching. They're not searching. It's
And what i'm hearing is the bigger issue is they they never buy your product from that
Experience in that journey like it may educate them a little bit and may teach them oh vanta exists
But they're never going to become customers. They need to talk to a salesperson. They need to involve a bunch of stakeholders. So it's basically a sales
Motion it's not a product let seo motion
Yes, is that right?
Yes
Pulling on that thread a little bit further beyond maybe even b2b just how does one decide if seo is an opportunity for you
And also just how much should you invest in this opportunity just to explore it
So we we have to really put away the myth that seo is free because it's absolutely not free
There's a cost in time. There's a cost and resources and of course there's the direct expense for seo
So if you're deciding that you should do seo so now we have to go through this evaluation
Again, this is where i think of it as a product where you have this all these product ideas
And what should you spend time and money on so seo is a channel you may or may not want to invest it
So say there's a sass tool and they're convinced there's an seo journey people do search for this solution
You know when I was at survey monkey we generated a couple hundred million dollars a year off of organic traffic because it was a freemium tool
Where you search for the problem the problem you find the solution
It's free you sign up for it if it works for you you end up paying and that's the revenue we've generated from organic
So say there is a journey. So people do search for it and it makes sense to invest in seo
Now is when you'll decide how much should you invest in it and how you should invest in it
So typically wait again for serving monkey. It was around creating content. It was around templates
It wasn't very expensive, but let's say there's a company that does not have a content team
They don't have a product yet that people are going to search for they don't have a product manager
That's going to be overseen as seo process. So saying you need to hire this pm where you want to hire an agency a typical seo agency
I mean you're not going to spend five hundred dollars on an seo agency
It's going to be upwards of ten thousand dollars just because that's the cost of someone's time
So it's ten thousand dollars a month
120 thousand dollars a year gets even more expensive if you have a full-time employee
So that's one expense you're going to outline then you're going to add in all the supporting resources
You need a CMS that costs money. You need an engineer to support them that costs money
You need a potentially design you need content
So it can really add up quickly and now you look at that investment and you say
For this tool if I invested a million dollars a year in seo
Do I expect to make back a million dollars a year?
Soon, right seo will always make back money for if it's the right fit
But soon so sass tools especially startups they need to make that money back soon or if they took that exact same million
Dollars and put it into brand ads where they put it into influencer campaigns or they put it into just
Traditional paid marketing on meta and google
Would you make that million dollars or million one dollars back faster?
And that's where I think the evaluation should happen instead of this default. Well, I just got my funding
I need to invest an seo because it's free and everyone does seo and look my competitors
Do seo it should really be this thoughtful strategic decision-making process of how much will this cost me all in?
And is this the right use of funds?
Amazing. So so I think this is really important
It's not that you won't benefit from seo. It's not that seo isn't an opportunity
It's that you have much bigger opportunities in other areas most likely if you're a b2b sass companies
Because the journey isn't fully online. You're not going to convert by just reading a bunch of pages
That's fascinating. Yeah. Yeah, there was once a company. I met there was a sass tool
They were in a gardening space isn't like they made a sass for gardeners
And they were insistent on doing seo and they asked me to look at a proposal they got from an agency for $15,000 a month
And it was all content
And then I I asked them how they their users found them
How did they get all the customers they had that paid them? How did they find them?
They said they go to these gardening shows around the country
And they have a booth and each booth cost them $10,000. So I said instead of spending
$15,000 on seo you could get you can go to all these shows for the exact same budget
And you get users who are interested
They're in market
They try your tool out at the booth and then they leave and their leads that you can follow up with
Instead of investing in me like hope it works. It's sort of free
There are searches for it, but it's not the right searches
The takeaway here is if you're thinking about whether seo is worth an investment for you
And you see all these other companies doing seo winning with seo
Think about how much will this actually cost us and
And I think the most important takeaway for me here is if you don't think it'll convert
Online if you think sales is the core motion of the process. It's probably not a good ROI for you
Absolutely. Yeah, really think about what are the trade-offs again from a product standpoint. There's always trade-offs
Yeah, so what are the trade-offs to investing in this channel versus another channel?
And I think like what I've seen there's all the way I think about it
There's four actual growth engine. They're four core growth engines seo paid virality and sales
And what I find is eventually large companies do them all like unless you're a consumer
You don't do sale
And so it's not like seo should you should never do it's I think the main point here is earlier stage when you have limited resources
Probably not the best use your channel
I think there are companies that should probably never do seo when going back to what I said when google cloud
I don't think that google could ever say really pinpoint that there was a customer that they got
Surely from seo and you're going to do all sorts of weighted attribution
And maybe that person did discover google cloud from a piece of content or piece of seo asset
But they never would have converted with all those other things that they they've touched
And it's not like you're saying don't be on the internet and don't let make it easy for people to understand who you are
Don't have like a great site. Don't have like other pages writing about you
It's just don't you don't you spend time optimizing the search result for google cloud. You're not going to benefit significantly
from that work
Yes, I mean again go really digging into this user journey piece
I don't think restaurants typically should have a website not only should they not do seo
But I don't know that they should have a website hot take as if if you think about the buyer journey for a person looking for food
They don't typically go to a website. So if you're looking for pizza and again a lot of pizza shops have websites
But if you're looking for pizza, you're going to google maps door dash uber eats
You're not going on google and saying pizza near me and then browsing the websites
And this making a decision about where to eat lunch again
If you're choosing how to cater your kids birthday party that might be a different thing
But you're not browsing and saying these are the places i'm going to go right now
But more than that it's expensive and there's no way that that pizza shop knows that the website
They have with the soft music playing and their menu that comes up and flash
Which is expensive does a single thing for them
Most of their orders are going to come again through those other platforms
Yeah, I hate restaurant websites
Uh, one thing I real I read once that explains why what restaurant websites are so bad
Is what restaurant owners are big on just like what is the experience when someone enters my restaurant that they go through
The vibe and they do that on the website. They're like here's the music and here's the imagery and here's the animations
And nobody wants that on their website. Just like give me the hours and location and your menu
You mentioned a couple things that I want to drill into a little bit
So one is just how long seo should take for you to see results
Two is just expectations of what is good conversion look like. What is it tells you?
This is actually us a journey that could work for us well enough that seo might work. So maybe those two questions
So those will be custom for anything and I hate to use the word it depends because I I think whenever consultants say it depends
They're just you know the throwing their hands up and saying I don't really know
I'm not I don't have an opinion on this and it's like when you go to a doctor and the doctor's like well it depends
I mean you could be dying or you could just you know need to take a nap, right?
So
It there's a there's a custom answer here and it comes down to what the company is and what the expectations are
So how long it takes
That depends on what you're building
So if you're if there's an opportunity like again with tinder took us a while to actually build anything
So it took us all this time to build for ideate them build and then to see results
But once we built and I love working with big companies that are well-known brands
Because what we build as soon as it's available on the web
It's like this turning a huge ship it starts driving revenue and starts being super effective
Because it's there something didn't exist and now it exists and it drives revenue smaller companies
It may take many months before google notices it may take many months before the demand is there
Like with zapier, I think it took them a couple of years before they even saw any results because nobody's looking for it
So it comes down to what is it that you're building and how quickly
Users will come and find and need that solution
Then as as far as what the expectations are on conversions
That also is really depends on what it is that you're looking for
There's some companies are building media and they they would
I mean again, I think most companies should just not write a lot of content and less their media company
But if you are building media and you're monetizing that content from the media standpoint
So maybe leads maybe clicks off the page and deletes or maybe it's cpm advertising
So then your conversion is what you're trying to do with seo is get a lot of page views
Because the more pages you get the more clicks off that page you get into something else
If you're a sas tool, then your conversion should absolutely
Be whatever a mql should be so you and and again, I I think most people don't do this correctly with seo
They use the wrong conversion metric, which is top of funnel ranking. Oh, I'm ranking my seo is successful
I'm number one for this instead of how does this benefit me?
There was a company I was working with a sas tool. They're in a two-sided marketplace
They worked with they in an hr space so they on they only monetized one side of that hr space
But all the traffic was on the other side of the hr space
So I when we were talking about their seo conversion problems
I suggested that they delete all the content that was on the wrong side of that marketplace because they didn't convert at all
And there's no and this is a common misconception
People will think you get a benefit from traffic google sees. Oh, I get all this traffic from search
They think i'm a very good website. So even though none of this converts for me. I should have a blog because blogs are good
It doesn't really work like that
I mean, maybe if you're this massive website and you're let's say you get millions and millions of visits
Then you can build some sort of authority and some good experience in google
And now you can launch something else and you don't have to worry about needing to build up that authority
But generally driving traffic to something that doesn't convert you for you wouldn't be a good idea. So
Really understanding what is it that you're trying to do with an seo traffic? That's your conversion metric
So it could be mqls could be page views could be dollar conversions
It could be
People picking up the phone or watching a video it but it has to be some sort of conversion
So for startup it might mean
That they you're getting links. I mean at at a minimum people reading your content deciding to link to you and give you social shares
That might be something you put in a pitch deck
Whatever it is there has to be conversion metric that matters for the business
So just to give someone that's starting to do this something concrete to look at
When you come to a startup and help them with seo, what do you?
Usually track as a sign this is working that we should keep investing
What's like what are the couple metrics the look at most?
The first is really understanding what is it that they care about?
So and rankings could be something they care about if someone else cares about it
So for example, if a they're going to put in their pitch deck
We're number one for this tool and investors
They don't know that that doesn't convert so that might be something that we should care about
They should they should be number one for that tool
If it's mqls, so they just need people filling out lead forms
So really understanding who it is that they're trying to attract with seo
That's the metric we're going to use and again. I don't know why seo this happens with seo
But not other any other channel. No one doing paid marketing will ever say
This is how many times i'm number one on the search where this is how many clicks i get or look at how much i spent
There's really a we spend this and with this efficient. This is what we drive from that and seo really needs that same rigor
So what i'm hearing is look at if you're in b2b leads coming in through seo track that
Or rank potentially if that's like a vanity thing you can show investors and you're saying traffic alone because usually in decks i see
And investor updates almost always the metric i see is traffic. We're getting through seo
Yeah, totally sometime
Amazing. Yeah, it would i mean less there's a reason for it
So if you're a media company and traffic means that that number it keeps going up
Then yes, it matters
But if you are driving leads in it that don't that traffic number goes up
You're not driving more leads from seo you're getting worthless traffic. It doesn't help the business
Awesome. Okay, uh back to the question
Just how long it takes just to give someone something here that they can tell that can tell them when it makes sense to keep going and move on
Say you're just like taking a shot at seo
How long should you give it to like make a decision?
This is working for us or not or is it always there's always something here
Keep working like how do you decide keep doing it or not?
When you're building out an seo effort and then you keep going back to this it's a product
So you're building out a product roadmap and you're creating milestones
So you say we're it's going to take us this first month to ideate on what it is that we're building
It's going to in the second month
We're going to build out a prd for the engineers to start working on
In the third month they're going to start working and they're going to ship this
Now if you start missing all those milestones
So and then this is a common problem in consulting in general
You miss all those milestones and then someone said what's we've been working together for six months
So we have nothing to show for it
And you can point very specifically to all those milestones that we're missed
So that's the result of not shipping or not meeting the milestones that the seo didn't work
So as you're meeting those milestones, you can say well, we we launched and our expectation was that after the first month of launching
We would have x amount of pages indexed
Did we meet or did we miss that milestone?
And then you can say seo is working at a small scale and i've seen
In many companies it takes a really long time
But eventually when you look back you see like this hockey stick, but while you're in it, you don't necessarily see that
Awesome. Okay. Okay. Let me share an example of one that worked really quickly
So uh, this was an also a an interesting one and and i was at survey monkey and i was introduced to
The seo of quora who was interested in doing more seo
So quora had never done seo or never done seo effectively from a product standpoint
And there were a couple things i was able to recommend to them and within three months they had quadruple traffic
So
It really will depend on what is it that holding things back in quora's case
They weren't showing the answers so they were really pushing to get people to log in before they saw any answers
So i encouraged them to show the answers
Yes, they were going to be giving way answers for free, but they were also going to be giving answers to google
So that was number one that they were able to quadruple traffic
And the second thing is they had no way that google could navigate within the site
So when you came to quora and it's like this again
So they reversed the suggestion i made, but it was i think it was 12 years ago
So when you came to quora when you come to quora today
You see related questions so you see a question and then there's related questions
And that's the way a bot or a human will navigate through the site
If they create a site map they did this in the past and if quora is listening you should do this again
If you create a categorize site map where you can say these are all the questions on health
And from this site map again, it's html site map not just an xml site map and it way even a user can navigate through it
This is health and this is health page one and health page two and you can navigate through this entire site
Then a search engine can navigate through the entire site and all of their questions and answers are discoverable
So when i made that suggestions them within a couple months they were able to quadruple traffic
There's so much here and there's so many valuable insights one that i think is really recurring that i think is really important to people is the point that you're making about
Your seo content pages should solve
Should be a product aka should solve problems for people as they're trying to understand the space and the potential problem they have
so to correct me if i'm wrong but kind of the
Advice you're sharing is there's less opportunity in just generating tons of blog posts that just have a bunch of content
and the opportunity is more things like
Zapier and canva with templates and notion
And kora was just like here's the answer. It's just like actually help them solve the problem
And with that here's our product and help you solve that problem further is that
It's really building a product around what the company is attempting to monetize
So
Canva's building templates because then they're going on to monetize that templates by having other people build off those templates with
upgrades and subscriptions
But if a company was like let's say there was an enterprise version of canva
And they didn't monetize those templates so putting out a bunch of free content on the internet that just looked good
Wouldn't benefit so it always comes down to what is it?
What is the product that you want to use so going to mention the templates?
We did serving monkey so survey product if someone looked for a template of a survey
They wanted to make a survey
So we were not a survey product and we just monetized off the survey templates that would not have done anything for us
So copying someone else's version of programmatic doesn't do anything and generally doing programmatic for the sake of programmatic
so
Just to have content wouldn't do anything unless that programmatic fed you into exactly what your product did
So zapier they did programmatic it feeds you into making other zaps between different products
Tinder we did programmatic it fed you into oh you would like to solve your lonely
We showed you that your loneliness problem is solvable in the city you're in
You have to solve that problem by downloading the tinder app
And i've never used tinder only only used it from a marketing standpoint
But if you tinder gates you so if you'd like to get the advanced tinder experience you have to pay and again
It's all part of that buyer journey and anything you're building seo for it has to be a piece of that buyer journey
So programmatic blog posts anything you're doing if there is no product journey for it. There's no user journey. It just stops
That's an amazing clarification. So again, it's another point you've been making of
Traffic alone is not valuable if it doesn't convert and so
You can look at a canvika look at notion and air table with all these templates
Copy that but if that isn't the thing people will buy from you and monetize it's not gonna be worth doing
Yes, awesome
I'm excited to chat with christina gilbert the founder of one schema whenever a long time podcast sponsors. Hi christina
Yes, thank you for having me on lenny. What is the latest with one schema?
I know you network with some of my favorite companies like ramp vanta scale and watershed
I heard that you just launched a new product to help product teams import csv's from especially tricky systems like erp's
Yes, so we just launched one schema file feeds which allows you to build an integration with any system in 15 minutes
As long as you can export a csv to an sftp builder
We see our customers all the time getting stuck with hacks and workarounds
And the product teams that we work with don't have to turn down prospects because their systems are too hard to integrate with
We allow our customers to offer thousands of integrations without involving their engineering team at all
I can tell you that if my team had to build integrations like this
How nice would it be to be able to take this off my roadmap and instead use something like one schema and not just to build it
But also to maintain it forever. Absolutely lenny
We've heard so many four stories of multi-day outages from even just a handful of bad records
We have laser focused on integration reliability to help teams end all of those distractions that come up with integrations
We have a built-in validation layer that stops any bad data from entering your system and one schema will notify your team immediately of any data that looks incorrect
I know that importing incorrect data can cause all kinds of pain for your customers and quickly lose their trust
Christina, thank you for joining us and if you want to learn more head on over to one schema dot co
That's one schema dot co
Okay, so coming back to AI and its impact on seo
Can you use AI to help you with this and use AI to create content for you?
So AI is a tool. Everyone says AI is a tool. It's not a solution. So you can use AI to create content
If the content you're creating is a part of that journey
So for example before AI content really came on the scene because it AI has been around for a while
You know jasper's been around for a while
Writer's been around for a while and before chachi bt
So
Before these tools a lot of ways that companies created content for cheat is they went on fiber and they went on upwork
And they just created content. So a lot of that content completely worthless
So if you're just creating content for the sake of content and you paid someone on upwork $50 for the content
Now you can use an AI tool and just create the content the same worthless content for free
So AI as a tool is a tool creating something that's not necessarily useful for the end
Journey of the company and for the user journey in general
However
If the content you're creating was pretty useful and now you're using AI to create really useful content for cheaper and better
Of course, you can use it
So an example of a place you can use AI content is if you're an e-commerce site and you're selling your own products
Of course, you can use AI content to write product descriptions
It's not a content website
So there's a lot of big companies out there and you know if anybody wants to look at some of the e-commerce sites
And how they do seo a lot of them have large seo teams
You know the typical jc penny the Nordstrom's the macy's they have a lot of content on their category pages
But if you look at the the keywords that drive traffic to those pages, it's the products on the pages
So if you're looking for shoes the fact that a macy's.com page will have a lot of content about what shoes do
Doesn't do anything for the user
They're just looking for shoes and then their shoes on the page and I think macy's actually ranks pretty well on those kinds of things
So using AI content to write more fluff content that's not necessary
So it would just be a waste of time
But using AI content to feed in a product and describe what that product is and maybe some features of the product
Which help a user that's not hurting your seo because what you're trying to optimize for is the product and the product name itself
Got it. So
Basically less don't use it. Don't use AI to generate entire blog posts. I know people are doing this all over the place
um, but
absolutely leverage AI to help you
add to
Existing pages descriptions titles things like that
Which I can see why google like google would have no idea that you were
Helped to write this thing with AI right if it's just like a small part of the page versus the entire page
And in their their documentation they say that AI is itself is not the problem
It's the helpfulness the usefulness of the content that would be a problem
Do you have any you don't have to name names or reveal anything?
But do you know a bunch of companies using AI now to generate tons of high successful pages high converting pages in some way in this way
There's this
hatred of AI content by users in general
And I think once companies declare that they're using AI people get upset about it
So I it was a red ventures company. I think it was cnet that said they were using AI to create content
And I I think they got in trouble because they said they're using AI to create content
But if they had not said they're using AI to create content
I think their their entire model would have been very successful because there's no reason you can't take in
They they take 10 products and they want to review 10 different products
There's no reason you can't tie that all together have AI write their original piece of content and then have a human editor just review it
And then years ago, it's not AI
But it's sort of like AI
But there are sports websites that will take in a lot of the things that happen in the sports game
To merge it all together and to piece of content if you look at any earnings reports on public companies
It's sort of the same thing
Their company will issue the file their earnings report and then
Now it's AI but before AI it was basically like mad libs kind of content
It would extract pieces of the earnings report and on to write a blog post which is actually fairly useful
So I don't think there's an issue with it itself
I don't think users have an issue with it
I think if you read that old piece of content again on earnings reports is pretty obvious that it wasn't written by
A financial journalist, but it was useful. You got a quick summary
You didn't have to go into like the SEC and read an earnings report
There's this guy Noah Smith
He's on Twitter. He's got a newsletter called no opinions. This is awesome
And he had this tweet about how we're
Approaching an age of a ton of slop
Of content just a lot of really bad content generated by AI for better worst
This is unrelated to SEO, but it makes me think about just like how much bad stuff we're gonna see
But to your point
It's doesn't matter whether it was generated by AR or not
People will gravitate towards and google will gravitate towards stuff that is useful and good
Whether it's written by people or not
And this is a huge issue for google because the amount of content being created is
enormous and it's growing exponentially and google is trying to crawl everything
They now have more content to crawl which becomes more expensive for google
And which is why there you have this backlash by google
Against many websites because they're trying to clean the index to save their own costs and to protect the users from having to see this awful content
The crazy thing for LLMs is now to be trained they're trained on content on the internet in a big way
And they're struggling with not training their LLMs on stuff that AI has written
Because it becomes this uh, bad
A bad trend a bad direction that uh, lms will go they're trained on themselves
Anyway, something I wanted to come back to around AI which is AI overviews
so
Imagine many people are like, how do I get into that answer? How do I get my?
Product into the answer that google gives at the top is that something you recommend people try to do is that something you can do?
So I think of AI as or AI overviews as a branding
exercise
So getting into the AI overview and google has links and I mentioned this earlier that google has has links within the content
And I think a lot of what google does is around potentially liability protection
So they're having links so they're saying well, we didn't tell you to jump off the golden gave bridge
The this website which we summarized told you to jump off the golden gave bridge or we didn't plagiarize
We just linked to the piece of content we may have extracted more from the content that we were supposed to
And the law hasn't decided that yet, but we linked to it. So it's fair
so
I and right now google has these links in the content and it it sort of links off of it
I did a survey on linkedin and I was surprised by the answer
I thought most people did not click on the links
I got a couple hundred responses and it's sort of 50/50 and based on my survey my gay experience
It's not a statistically significant survey in general
But it will never go to 99% one so like that's fairly indicative that people are clicking the links which surprises me
Because I don't think that
The links are necessarily meant by google to be useful which means that AI overviews is essentially duplicating search results
So you have this AI review which summarizes it then you have a link so you can link off of it
And then beneath it you sort of have the exact same thing and that that's the challenge that google has to work through
So for companies show up in AI overview, it's a brand challenge
So if your name if your link shows up there, then you likely were showing up beneath it in the ranking results
So you've already done the work you're supposed to do
But if you're showing up in AI overview mentioned as a brand like these are the top CRM tools
You're showing it was a brand that means you've exercised brand efforts and it's working out
So I don't know that companies necessarily want their content to show up because they're giving away their content for free
They want their they want to be showing up in a way that benefits them
So if you show up as a brand you've done good branding
But you show up as a link it means google stall on your content and people may or may not click off of it
Along the slides of brand and seo do you have any
That's always this question of like are we investing in brand?
Do we just want people to be aware we exist or are we trying to actually draft conversion?
Any advice on how to think about brand building and seo especially with this world of AI
I mean this is the biggest myth in seo is that you could just build links and link building is
Is the secret source and the secret sauce to like growing your seo
footprint
And that's totally wrong because the way most people build links is they buy these guest posts or they pay for links on
Low authority websites that sort of look like they might have authority and it it doesn't really benefit anyone because no one's reading these sites
And good it's funny that everyone complain about google as this really really smart all-knowing
LOM and the same time they think they're dumb enough to fall for these guest posts that are on websites that they don't really read
The right way to build links is to build a brand
So it comes part and parcel of what you're trying to do
So if you're building links and going back to all the sass examples we talked about
So if you've created a bunch of content that is not relevant for the product you're trying to sell
Building links to the content that doesn't really benefit the product
Doesn't really benefit the links don't benefit the product
But if you can build this product that's awesome and everyone loves and wants to use
And you get not links but mentions and links might be mentions now right because the way a link
Before LLMs and the link, you know 10 years ago was actually an html link and now google can read content
So they can say well, you've been mentioned here
That's pretty good. So now we we acknowledge that this might be the brand and this might be the match for that kind of thing
So that's helping to build that brand. So in general
I think of any SEO effort as promoting a brand building up a brand rather than
Building a product and then separately building out an SEO effort which has content that be not be relevant
And links from websites that are certainly not relevant to content that's not relevant
So it all comes together as being one big effort. So the same thing you'll do on PR
You'll do for SEO
Awesome. Okay. I'm glad we touched that. There's a few other
Directions I want to go so it's kind of I'm going to bounce around a little bit and cover some of the other stuff
I want to take track from your
Deep experience in the space. One is you've mentioned this idea of pragmatic pragmatic SEO a couple times
versus editorial
What's your maybe first just clarify what those two directions are just for people that don't exactly know what you mean?
And then two, what's your general advice for which direction to go programmatic or editorial?
It might be obvious at this point, but I'm going to say it's dependent on the user
But essentially what programmatic is is it's taking a bunch of data sources and building out a page
That is a combination of all these data sources. So in my my book
I talk about
Two of my favorite programmatic SEO companies
One of them was created by a past or it's not created that the strategy was created by a past guest
There's yours look like who it introduced us
And that was trip advisor
So trip advisor took in all these data sources of this is the hotel
These are the cities and then it allowed ugc to combine into one comprehensive page about each property
So trip advisor did not write a piece of content on every single hotel
They didn't write a piece of content on here's this long-form blog post as an influencer
On the wall of her story in New York and here's a long-form blog post about the mariot mark key in san francisco
They built it all from a programmatic standpoint. They took all these data sets
They took all the countries in the world. They took all the properties and they merged into one comprehensive page
Which is dominated the top of search results since they beginning of the time, right?
And they still own it and that team has cycled through many many leaders
Many different, you know, a lot of a lot of different things and they're still number ones
It's the strategy that has allowed them to build that branded to dominate it. The second example is zillow
So what zillow did is they they salted early problem many years ago in the real estate space
Which is no one understood what the value of a piece of property was
So zillow took in all of those data sets
So they got some of them are government data sets
Some of them are are their own comparison data sets based on other home sales
So the government can say a house is worth one price and based on their comparison zillow can completely disagree with it
So they're building these data sets and they're taking photos from realtors. They're taking neighborhood data
They're taking school data and that's a programmatic seo page
And seo is the only channel to bring in traffic to each one of these pages
They're not going to do page traffic for my house. They're not going to do page traffic for your house
The only way someone would find that page on zillow either they start at zillow.com and then navigate through it
Or they google it. So those are programmatic seo efforts
on the flip side
Is editorial so editorial would be
In Trip Advisors case writing out that long form piece of content around each hotel
Each city and all the things they've done
Zillow would be the same they were zillow would take 500 million properties and write out an editorial piece of content
Neither of those would be a fit for their model and it would be extremely expensive
So say each piece of content would cost a thousand dollars. That would be cost prohibitive for anyone to do
So going back to my distinction based on the user
What is it that the user is looking for?
So as the user looking for the value of a home, they don't need a long form piece of content
They need a piece of content or a page that just says what the value of that home is
Trip advisor's case
They're looking for a single thing or rating or maybe they need some that ugc
But really they're looking for that rating that long form piece of content
There's a purpose for it, but not on Trip Advisor's site
So understanding what is it that the user needs will help solve
Do you approach us from an editorial standpoint or do you approach us from a programmatic standpoint?
Some of the quantities i mentioned earlier like g2 and capterra, which are completely being disrupted
So they're being disrupted by editorial, but they're also being disrupted by google itself with their AI overviews
So if you look for the top CRM tools you have g2 where you have capterra
But you also have forbs writing out a long form piece of content
On what sales force is what hub spot is and that's probably unnecessary
So I can I think like generally you would
Programmatic is the better path and the most common success path is what i'm hearing
What are the things you need in place to be successful in programmatic SEO like basically you just need some sort of data source
that you own
Right is that just what's like a checklist of like here's what tells you you have a big opportunity here
So programmatic is the right solution when there's scale
And when there's a a user use case if there is not you create scale for nothing
So an earlier version of programmatic again pre
You know a lot of the internet company now is building out a piece of content for every single zip code in america
So say you offer some sort of local product you would build out a page for every single zip code that is in theory
Programmatic but users don't look for it and google has completely disrupted that with their own local products
So programmatic can always be something. I see programmatic mistakes all the time
Where websites look at you know, they say look we're making reviews of software. There's 10 000 different softwares in the world
We're just gonna make out a page for each one and we're gonna combine it with i don't know a city
So there you can make programmatic pages like that, but there's no use case
So really knowing what programmatic solution to use comes down to is this something that someone would actually be looking for?
Does this page itself provide a solution?
So zapier provided a solution because someone was looking for that combination
But there are many tools like zapier which try to be zapier
But they're not looking for that solution and going back to some of that template companies you mentioned
I don't think a lot of companies that make templates they're doing they're making programmatic
But there's not a use case for every single one of those templates. So they've made programmatic for no purpose
So again, survey monkey was one where we had a fat head of templates we could make but it wasn't a long tail
So we could make you know 100 templates, but we couldn't make 10 000
I want to do a rapid fire
Of seo myths, but before I do that
I know that you spent a lot of time actually reading the recent the recent ruling against google
and their whole deal with apple and
And you were telling me to reveal there were a lot of interesting stuff about their strategy and where search is going. So
Let's spend a little time here. Just what what did you learn doing that exercise?
So it's fascinating. It's 286 pages. So I basically read a read a book. It was a verdict
And I would say that the judge or the clerk that wrote this verdict has a better understanding how the seo works
And how digital marketing works that most people I meet in digital marketing. I did not expect to hear that
Yes, so this verdict explains how google decides to rank a page the verdict explains how the auction model works
In uh, it adds in google ads. I think that's fascinating talked about the comparison between social media like
The this court really understood a lot of the questions that were posted
So for example google tried to say that they're not a monopoly because they're social media
And the court analyzed that question and said social media is not a comparison to google search
Google tried to say a lot of the things they did were non monopolistic because there's alternatives like bank
And the court really analyzed a lot of these things. So where I found it fascinating was it given a lot of the testimony was public
Is the summary of how the court put it all together and averted?
So a few of the things I learned is one the market share google's market share
So that's been a number that no one really liked to talk about google would say oh, you know
We think it's like 80 because they didn't want to be viewed as a monopoly
And microsoft would say well, maybe we have 20 percent and they did also I just found a recent document for microsoft where they
Claimed to have like a lot of market share in search
And in the in the verdict it says that google has 98 of mobile searches
So and I forget whether it said that the court said it and they said google didn't disagree
Or that came from google's own documentation, but 98 percent of mobile searches
The thing that I thought was most fascinating from the verdict
Is how much the default partnerships that google has contributes to google's success
So the plaintiff in the case was the department of justice suing google for being a monopoly
However, I don't know what the word is but like one of the complainants in this is this company niva
Which was a search engine started by a past google I think like I had a research or something a senior person at google created a new search engine
And a lot of the the a lot of the trial was focused on how niva could not be successful
Despite having a better search engine despite having a better experience for users
Because they didn't have any of these default distribution agreements
So that's the part that I thought was most fascinating
Google has these default agreements with apple and they also have chrome and they have all these inputs into
Google searches
Which means that I don't think there's a chance and this is the biggest takeaway
I don't think there's a chance that chat gbt or perplexity or clawed or any of these other
LLM startups because they're startups now
Even even open AI is a startup with things part with microsoft's investments still a startup
I don't think they have a chance. They're really unceding google
Purely from a quality standpoint and that's what a lot of the documentation and this verdict is about
Is how much a force of habit how much the brand and how much the distribution agreements google has
Drives searchers to google and there were a couple very interesting insights
One is that bing tried to give itself to apple for free and apple said there was absolutely no price that they would take to use
being search with an apple
Another one was mozilla had a partnership with I think it was yahoo
And they did a rev share deal with yahoo and everyone switched back to google
so
I read when people say seo is dead everyone's going to go to open AI
And you just look at the 25 years of google's existence and what they've built
I really don't think so. I really think distribution and the force of brand will keep almost everything google has today
No, I what I mean. Why is google fighting back so hard to build AI overviews?
Well, I think there's two answers one is like I said wall street
Like they really want wall street to think that they care and they're doing this thing
And the other is losing small percentage points to chat gbt cost google a lot of money
So it's worth it for them to invest in it
But I don't think that they have any fear about not being the most dominant search engine in the world
Well, there's an idea with this trial that this may change and they may lose that default status
Whether it happens or not. That's the whole game here, right? It's like
Maybe they can't be that anymore and that maybe opens up. So I think that's the opportunity
Potential. I don't think so. Yeah, that's I mean, I know legal expert
I don't know what the doj will do
But what's interesting and if you saw like google's press release when the verdict came out
So google tweeted
We thank the court for recognizing that we're the greatest search engine in the world and and more to come right like they're gonna fight back
And it's almost like, you know a bully being declared the world's greatest bully and they're like see told you we're strong like
But the when reading the verdict it actually said there is no competitor google is the greatest search engine
They have 25 years of great data like they've done a fantastic job
So I don't see any way that those deep like if they break the default agreements
Apple actually loses all that money google's paying and then users will still google
So like that's not what we'll do it. I think the only thing they can do is like figure how to prop up a competitor
Yeah, so I think that's an interesting takeaway. People will go to google
We'll switch to google even if it's not default. There's actually a really interesting take away from ben tomsons
Analysis of the stuff and i will point to the podcast episode
So the thing that shifted my perspective on this because when you hear google is paying apple to be the default search engine
It sounds nefarious and unfair
Uh, the deal is actually revenue share
They give them a percentage of the revenue from the ads
Which ends up being 20 billion dollars something like that a lot of money for apple
And so
Anyone else can come to apple and say we will give you a revenue share of our
searches also
It's just nobody is as big and can pay as much
And if you think about it, why can't google come to apple
Hey, we will send you tons of money by
Doing the search for you and giving you a large percentage of the ads that we are doing for you
Like it's weird to not allow that if you really think about it
But it's also unfair because there and no one else will ever be able to compete with that
Yeah, and that's what the court said is like niva didn't have a chance
Because of that and and one other point is I saw I did this survey. This is yours going as that survey market did a search
Market penetration survey to figure out who used what like being versus google
And on my survey, I was generous. I threw duck duck go on there
And I came back I had thousands of responses and came back that I had 1% of people use duck duck go
So what I didn't realize it the duck duck go did actually know what their market penetration was
So when I shared the survey
Gabriel Weinberg is the CEO of duck duck go hit me on twitter and he said can you share the data with us?
Because we really would like to see it. So this was let's say 10 12 years ago
In the verdict it said that duck duck goes market shares 2%
So I came back with 1% 12 years ago duck duck go I think they raised 100 million dollars
They have all these brand partnerships. They have like, you know at baseball games
They have their logo they they're done everything and all they've been able to do is get from 1% to 2%
So and there's a lot there and google being google. I don't see anyone knocking them off
Fascinating. Well, thanks for sharing your take away so that we don't have to read this report
Before I move to rapid fire SEO myths, is there anything else along the lines of AI or SEO that you think is really important to share
That you want to leave listeners with
I think the most important thing to leave people with is that SEO is not dying
There will always be a world where users are requesting their own information
So one of the reasons I think these home assistants whether it's from google or apple or amazon have never taken off
Is because you don't have choice
You talk to google and it gives you only one answer you talk to amazon and it gives you only one answer
Like I want to buy toilet paper and amazon just buys you whatever it decides to buy you
There will always be a world where they're in each choice
And one other piece from the verdict is google believes that we're in the very early days of llms
And even with all the machine learning they do and understanding users
You will always need real user data which google has on past searches
So I think users will always be requesting their own information
And there's never going to be an AI that understands you so perfectly
It's going to know that for you personally you would like to click result number five
That's the best fit for what you're looking for right now
Which means that there always needs to be
Multiple choices to make so yes most clicks are probably going through the first you know one two or three results
But there needs to be
Seven ten multiple pages of google because some people do go to those other pages
So I think that's the the most important thing to underscore is that all of this means that
Search changes a lot of top of final search goes away
But in general there's always going to be a world where people are doing the searches
And then the last piece on that really is
When you're looking to do something with search you're looking to take an action and companies benefit from those actions
So say you're a hotel and you want people to sleep in your hotel and pay you to sleep in your hotel
The aggregate number of people needing to take that action and pay you for it does not change even if search volume gets cut
If you're selling shoes people still need to buy shoes if you're selling information though
Your media if you give if your web MD
Yes, your revenue declines because that information that you now aggregated and curated and gave away
For free in return for people clicking on ads google is now going to give away for free in return for no one clicking on ads
interesting wonder if there's a
Investment arbitrage opportunity predicting which businesses will decline with this
And which will thrive?
Anyway
Uh, I want to talk about SEO myths
I know that you have a few things that we've talked about a few of these I think of just things that you know people believe about SEO
But they're actually wrong
So let me just ask you what are some myths that people get wrong about SEO
Probably the biggest one we said over and over is that you even need to do SEO
So there's this always default assumption that you've raised money
You have a marketing team you should do SEO
And I think that one is really worth putting to bad is like think about that user journey
Should you do SEO?
And it's a question like
They ask about other channels. Should you do brand marketing?
Should you take out an ad in Times Square?
And no one will say well, I just raised a million dollars
I should totally take out an ad in Times Square and congratulations on being Times Square by the way
So I thank you
No one will just decide. Oh, I've got money to burn. Let me just burn it
So somehow SEO becomes this thing of like, oh, I've I've raised money now. I need an SEO team
So that's I think the first myth that's really important to just put to bet
Awesome. What else?
Link building. So link building is brand building
So it's it's
Thinking about how you're going to build a brand and have people mention to you and you're when you're doing link building
You're creating a relationship between the piece of content that has linked to you
And the product or whatever you're trying to monetize
So that should be link building just getting the idea of getting links on you know, an html link to will equal SEO success
again, I think that's completely wrong
And then I mean probably the the biggest myth in general is thinking that google itself is a black box
So I I think there's nuances to how you rank and no one can really unearth
What is is that will make you be number one and what it is that will make you be number three?
But the basic idea of how you build SEO is very simplistic and google has a best practices guide on what it is that you should be doing
Which is build a website that google could understand link to the pages in that right content that is helpful
And that users want to read and those are the basics and starting with that is how you're going to build an SEO strategy that improves upon it
But the idea of if I take all three of these steps right now, I'm guaranteed to be number one
I think is is something that is completely incorrect
And there's an assumption that if you do a lot of things around SEO, you're going to be successful
And I think that that's incorrect
Yes, there are there are nuances
But for the most part you get from you know, most like zero to ten you can get to step eight
By just doing the best practices. Oh wow sounds very empowering
I like the sound of that
Maybe just on that new one on the threat briefly if someone wanted to start down the road of SEO
I know you're going to be a little bit biased because you help companies with this
But do you recommend bringing someone like you in first?
Or having someone just give it a shot
listening to this podcast reading some books and bugs or
Or something else
Yeah, so I am biased. I think they they should
Have the right people give them advice on SEO
So if someone wants to be if they validated that there is an SEO effort
Paying for help on SEO is goes back to that resource discussion we had before
So if you want to hire a growth advisor a growth advisor might be very expensive
But you squash a learning curve so you don't make as many mistakes as fast
If you hire someone in-house and a lot of times
I see this with with with roles where I'm helping companies hire some for SEO
They don't have a lot of budget, which means they're going to have someone that doesn't have a lot of experience
So is that the right decision to make?
If you're hiring an agency
Agencies are typically expensive and agencies a lot of times get paid on deliverables
So are the deliverables they're doing worth paying for?
So a easy deliverable that a lot of agencies produce now is content
But it goes back to our earlier discussion. Do you even need the content?
Very easy for agencies to sell content is deliverable because it's something they actually deliver
Delivering strategy the way most of my growth advising works is very difficult
Because I don't have a strategy to offer in a proposal because I haven't developed a strategy
And we don't actually see the fruits of that till we implement the strategy
But agencies can you know and run that by just saying oh you pay us on a month on a monthly basis
And these are the things we're gonna ship to you
Something that I want to touch on which might be a myth and might not be a myth
I think you're gonna say it's a myth
Uh based on what you said about google being so dominant
There's a lot of talk about tick-tock and instagram replacing search for people
Like I actually do search tick-tock a lot now or like how do I how do I solve this problem?
How do I cut a watermelon? How do I uh, I don't know
Find a cup for my baby like it's really good
Uh, what's your take on sicktock and instagram videos basically replacing a lot of searching for for gen z especially in and you know younger kids
So in the google verdict, I think google said this before 63 percent of gen z uses tick-tock to search
Oh, wow
But I think that's yeah, I think that's just a headline number because it comes down to
I'm just saying it over and over the podcast user journeys
So there's going to be things that are more appropriate for tick-tock or instagram
And there are going to be things that are more appropriate for search
So I think if you're doing top of funnel discovery
You're going to maybe watch tick-tock videos to learn more about the topic
But as you go into the mid funnel, so say you want to add you know a popular tick-tock
Search is around travel. So you want to go on a trip. You want to go on a trip
You want to go to south east asia
You don't know where exactly you want to go
So you might want to watch a bunch of videos and see influencers and see experiences
But now you're ready to book
And you want to book a hotel you want to book it, you know your your flights
All of that is not going to happen on tick-tock. All of that's going to happen on google search
So that's the mid funnel again. So I a lot of search will move different places
but ultimately
Google is still the right place to do those searches to do those those mid funnel searches
So maybe it was more inappropriate that google ever that there ever wasn't a tick-tock for you to get those better experiences
For those top of funnel things you had to suffer through reading awful content
That was written only for SEO purposes and now you get rich dynamic content that comes from tick-tock
And one interesting piece on this is if tick-tock does get banned in the us, which looks like it's likely
And a company that will pick up all of that users is is youtube right so youtube has youtube shorts
And again
We're looking at a potential monopoly with google as google tries to put those youtube shorts to solve the problem
That tick-tock was now solving so that will be kind of interesting. Oh, man
Google all the way down
Yes, one I thought I had as you were talking about this idea of mid funnel versus top funnels a simple way to think about the mid funnel
Is where there's intent like you actually have intent to buy now buy a thing specific thing
Yeah, cool. I mean that that's what it is, but it it's a buyer journey
So at the top of the funnel you're curious you don't know if you have intent
And right in the older way of doing SEO where you only focused on top of funnel you only focused on rankings as a kpi
To think is sort of the incorrect way of doing things. There is no intent
So you you showed a kpi that matched with a non-user which matched with a non buyer as you move down the funnel
There is intent so there is a user and there's less traffic
There's always gonna be less traffic at the middle of funnel, but that doesn't matter because your kpi is closer related to your business metrics
Let's do a couple more myths if there's anything else that we missed and then we'll wrap up and get to a very exciting lightning round
Is there anything else that you think is an important?
Myth that people get wrong about SEO
I'll touch on one more myth, which is that technical SEO is an easy solve to any SEO problems
So there's been a lot of google updates recently
I think I don't like to defend google because in reading the verdict
I think that google did some pretty evil things
But a lot of what google has been doing is pushing back on the things that users hate
There's a lot of bad SEO content out there
So google is trying to get rid of a lot of this bad SEO content in their recent updates
When sites get hit by these updates they try to solve the problem that they think happened to them by doing technical SEO
So they'll reach out to me or to someone like me and say can you do an SEO audit and understand why our our traffic has suffered
The reason the traffic has suffered is because they've done things that were not really useful for users and they sort of polluted google
They need to solve that problem. So technical SEO has a place
So
If you have a large website with tens of millions of pages if you're Zillow
How you link to each listing if you're Airbnb how you link and allow google to crawl a site and understand a site
Very very important. If you have a hundred page website that sells a sass tool
Technical SEO is probably going to be less important. So spending money in time
Contexting the lessio would be a waste of time. So I think that's another big myth is you solve SEO problems with a right SEO solution
rather than
Let's do an audit or let's get better links or my page page speed is another one that
Agencies like to sell on on if things related to page speed google keeps changing the words of what that is
But it doesn't matter as much because at the margins
Yes, maybe if you're kayak and you're competing in expedia
And in kayak is maybe slightly faster. Maybe that matters
But if you're in a space where you're competing against lots of slow terrible websites
It doesn't matter at all. So spending a lot of money on making that fix is not the right thing to do
I like I just make SEO feel much more approachable and simple and something that you could just do
and not have to again
Figure out the dark arts that
It it is not a dark art
It should be for most things that is simple
And then there are tons of companies out there again a lot of trouble and there's so there's billions of dollars
We made on doing the right SEO, but a lot of can be unlocked by very simplistic ex-sco
PMs that don't really have an SEO background can do enough SEO to make a lot of money for the company without needing me an SEO expert
I love that. That's actually how work that are being be the pms working on a CEO. We're not like historically SEO
Legends, they were just pms figuring out a CEO and they had a really big impact. So that really resonates with me
Eli is there anything else that we haven't touched on
That you think is important to you or something that you think might be useful to people to leave them with
Before we get to our very exciting lightning ramp. Yes
So I think we talked about
How to decide whether to resource SEO, but we didn't talk about how to understand what the expectations are from SEO
So this is something I came up with while I was working at fair, which is a very interesting company. So it's F. A. I. R. E
They are a wholesale Shopify
So they were launching in a new country and they wanted to understand what the upside of launching in that country was from an SEO stamp
So the way most people do SEO forecasting is they do a bottoms up forecast, which is they look at keywords
So say we want to sell a pair of shoes
So you do a bottoms up forecast you go on to a keyword research tool and they're all fairly the same
Look at how many people search for shoes every month
And then you try to estimate what your ranking would be on that word shoes
And then you estimate what you click through what it would be and then based on that
That's your clicks and then you get a conversion rate and that's your bottoms up and you make an assumption that the word shoes
In that tool didn't capture
All the people of that search like white shoes and black shoes and running shoes
So you you just gross it up. You just pick a number and you gross it by like 10
And that's your SEO forecast now that the problem with that is that usually it's too small
So you get this number and now you're pitching to like launch in a new country. I want to launch in Japan
And sell shoes
And you say well, I think I can get 500 users because based on the way I got here
This is my click-through rate and this is my rankings and i'm 500 users and no one will ever fund that
That's too small
Now if you're launching in a new country
It's actually fairly easy to figure out what your SEO upside is because you can take the population in the country
So this is not something fair sells. So I don't have to i'm not giving that way anything
But say you're launching shoes you're launching a new product website that you're selling shoes
in a country like Japan
So i'm going to guess I don't know the actual numbers for Japan
So say Japan has 100 million people in your selling shoes
And you're not going to sell shoes to 100 million people. We were only selling shoes to men and let's just divide in half
So if 50 percent of Japan is men, so we got 50 million people
That would buy shoes, but now we're also going to say well
There's older people and younger people and we're not selling shoes to them. So now we can take 25 million and cut that in half
And then from there
We're again. We're selling shoes on the internet. Not everyone buys shoes on the internet
Some people buy shoes in a store and some people buy shoes on the internet
So you take some percentage rate of the amount of people that are going to buy shoes on the internet
And say we'll take 10 percent of our 25 billion people in our market
Two and a half million people buy shoes on the internet
And we want to do seo for two and a half million people and our expectation is we want to get this
Number of market penetration whether it's 10 percent or 50 percent or 100 percent
And there's your number and multiply that number by the amount of shoes they're going to buy every year
And your aov and there's your forecast and that may be in exact and you can tweak those numbers up or down
You can say well, my aov was wrong. My market penetration was wrong. I was wrong on the total population
I didn't realize that in Japan no one bought shoes on the internet
But at any point in time you can go back and adjust your forecast
Whereas if you're doing this bottoms-up forecast
It's actually in many cases wrong to begin with because the keyword research volume is wrong
Like I worked with um some really fascinating companies where the largest query in their space was the biggest query
So I worked with WordPress. So WordPress the word WordPress
Is the biggest query in the web development space as itself, right?
like there's no no other word that's as big as WordPress
And the number that every single keyword research tool had was completely wrong of what Google search console said for the word word presses
So when you're building these forecasts based on keyword research tools
That first number that you build the entire forecast off of if it's wrong your forecast is wrong
So when you do this top down, it's a tam forecast essentially when you do the top down
You're you're closer to the truth now. You probably aren't going to get to the truth
I've never seen a product plan get to the truth of what it could do
But it will help you make a better decision than if you just
guessed
Wow, this is a massive inset you're sharing. So you're saying the keyword
Research tools are not actually that accurate in terms of the opportunity
There and why is that that picks the question? Why are they so off? What are they doing wrong? What are they missing?
They're doing they're they have their own secret sauce for estimations
So even google for again for past monopolistic reasons
Google's not allowed to give the real number that they see on google ads for how many people search it
They have to buy it from another data source and then give that out. I forget why
So none they're all basically guessing so they're using whatever sort of proprietary algorithms to guess
Which is why a lot of them are not aligned because they have their own algorithms
So you're using whether it's semrush or atrefs
One of my favorite tools is similar web which similar web has a lot of browser plugins
Which snoop on the way people are searching so whatever it is that they're in it because it similar web has browser plugin
But they're not seeing every single person search so they have to use algorithms to estimate how much the entire world would be
And again, I don't know that any of them who get close to truth was when I've worked with big companies
Where there were keywords that I could look at google search console some of them
The tools were overestimating by 10 times sometimes they're underestimating by 10 times
So I'm not saying they didn't get the exact monthly number wrong. I'm saying they got it wrong by many factors
Wow
That's crazy
So your advice is like do you just ignore those numbers or is it just like check it out?
But don't roll it don't use that number
They're indicative
So I would say if you want to know like do most people spell WordPress with a space or WordPress without a space
It's pretty indicative that people spell it without a space
But if I were building a forecast and say oh, I absolutely choose this based on this defined number
I don't think so I can use it for normalization
And I use them only for normalization to understand like how do people search?
And I really like user journeys and they're helpful for understanding user journeys
But as an exact science, it's hard to really under use that
That's wild and so it's mostly useful for order magnitude and and did comparing
one keyword to another relative
This bit. Okay. Interesting. I mean I have a great example of how wrongly it could be an estimating traffic
So there's a company I was working with early and covid their board member the public company
They're board member emailed them and said you guys are getting crushed by your competitors in covid
Because look at all look at your competitors. I'm looking at one of these tools
And you're at the bottom and you're doing everything wrong
And the cmo says what do I what do I tell this this board member?
I said the board members completely wrong. This is the google search console and google search console is not perfect
But it is again, it's real data and our google search console shows that our traffic has quadrupled in covid
So it doesn't really matter what this external tool shows
So they're they're helpful tools are helpful, but I don't think they are a source of actual truth
Wow, that's an awesome point
In closing
One thing I had noted here that I want to make sure you have a chance to talk about is just you're really
Uh, you're really passionate about helping people get into seo and also just becoming advisors the way you are
Share what you want to where you think might be useful to people on these lines
So as my own forecaster and prediction
I think the need for seo expertise is going to explode
Because a lot of what is happening in the search layouts is going to mean that companies have to pivot their approaches
So a lot again companies focus on rankings. They focus on traffic
And a lot of that goes away some suddenly the layout changes the traffic changes
It's not necessarily going to impact their bottom lines if their seo wasn't the right fit
So this is going to create a lot of interest in seo help and I'm seeing this over the last year
My own inbound has really grown because there's a lot of questions as as things shake out
So there will be people that want to go into seo consulting
And I think there's going to be a huge need for it and growth advising in general
What I would say is and I had amazing mentors along the way some of your past guests like kasey winters and yuray timin
even smith
like
They're all guests with great episodes, but like they advised me and they they share with me
Not on how to be a better operator, but on how to be
Do sales better how to propose better and if for anyone out there that wants to be a come-of-growth advisor
I'd say that that's the skill you really want to perfect
communication
Sales proposals and not really worry about being the best operator
You should be the best operator, but that's probably the skills you already have and don't make an assumption that because you're a good operator today
You'll also be a great growth advisor
Build that growth advising muscle by staying in your day job
Don't quit your day job and moonlighting and practice selling closing working retaining
And that's where you'll you'll if you're successful there you can be successful on your own
Amazing and I know you have some posts that I get into this stuff that will link to you right
Yep, awesome. It's kind of think of yourself as a product and the
The journey of working with you. Yes, you're building a brand. You're not building a consultancy
I love that
Eli this has been amazing and with that we reached our very exciting lightning round. Are you ready?
Absolutely
Here we go first question. What are two or three books that you recommended most to other people?
I as has been an imperative really like user journeys and understanding people
So there's a book called small data by I think Martin Lindstrom
I'm pronouncing his name right where he talks about understanding people and understanding how people buy
And he digs into that entire process. He actually goes and lives in people's houses and watch how they use different tools and toys
Found always find that book to you fascinating recommend to people who want to understand users
the uh simons next start with why again same idea really understand what a product a business is supposed to be doing
to understand users
For growth. This is specifically for growth advisors and not necessarily for pms
But million dollar consultant. It's a a book I read. We recommended actually by Ethan Smith many years ago
Fastening book on how to build a brand and become a growth advisor
I ended up working with the author as a coach for almost a year
Amazing book and then the last book that you were missing not recommending is my wife's book
Which is how to stop caring what others think for will so it is a book for
Precisely that understanding your own success is not worry about what other people like beautiful
Is that in the background by the way? And if not, you got to put it in your background your wife's book
My wife made the background. So yes, it is in the background
which which one is it which color in my
Just so people recognize it. Oh the big one right there. I was wondering why that one was a little taller than yes
This is the book here. There it is. Wait, move it up a little bit so we can see the full cover
Oh beautiful. Stop caring what others think beautiful. I need that
For real. I like the ends like but for real for real. I love it. Okay, it may or may not be a google search query
Oh, man. I see I see what happened there genius
Okay, next question your favorite recent movie or tv shade really enjoyed I was on a plane and I saw this movie blackberry
And it looked like a documentary. So I don't know if you've seen it
But it was fascinating because it's one of those movies it has a cliffhanger and you know exactly how it ends
And it is such a fascinating movie like
I didn't know all that history, but it was they owned the entire smartphone industry
And they went to zero and it really charted that journey and it makes you think like you can never really rest on your laurels
You have to create a product people want
And understand your users and keep selling that product not be like well, we're number one. This will never go away and
Great movie so funny. It was just recommended by another guest very recently. So there's trending up
It's been around for maybe a year at this point
Yeah, I never would have watched it if it wasn't on a plane
It was totally like seemed like a plane movie, but it was perfect
Yeah, and I watched it at home and I love just like the technical
Like their ability to find clever ways to use the cell networks
That felt like impossible and that what that's what allowed them to you always
I'm like the messaging and things like that
That was really fascinating because I didn't realize they basically like reverse engineer the way they sell networks worked
It allowed what they allowed. Yeah, awesome movie and crazy story
Next question. Do you have a favorite favorite recent product that you've recently discovered?
They really love could be an app could be some physical
You know, it's it's not a recent product and it's it's like the kind of thing I fall in love with over and over again
And it's might be cliche, but it's my phone
So I recently traveled in southeast asia
I lived there for a little bit
So I had been back in eight years and the things I was able to do with my phone
Like traveling like google maps and and ways and ordering food
Like I went from multiple countries and I was able to use like the same app to like book rides
And like make payments and like it was so useful like eight years ago
And I was there and I had to like buy a sim card and my phone didn't really work
And I couldn't make payments and it changed my entire experience
Almost didn't like need a computer. So like the falling in love with my phone again
And then another one that it's not necessarily recent, but I absolutely love which is grammarly
So it I like writing. I write all my own stuff. I don't write with AI
Grammarly helps me to be a better writer
You know what I've realized about grammarly recently. I just upgraded to their pro plan. They're like
The best product at upselling you on their paid plan because they're just like right there in your face all the time
Hey, we have stuff we could we have so many tips for you
Just we're we'd have so much we get improve
Just pay a hundred whatever bucks and we have so much advice to make all your writing so much better
And so like right there in your face all the time
So like they're so good at it and they got me they got me and i'm happy
You know, it's not like that much money in the scheme of things if you're doing this
Full time. I'm so embarrassed when I use grammarly on my book
And like it just like shows up ball blue and green. I'm like, oh man
Only I had known
Interesting. So I actually have a copywriter on my newsletter who's like incredible
She finds like a hundred things every time to improve that even when I think it's perfect
And interestingly, she doesn't do what grammarly suggests in
Like more cases than I would expect so
That's kind of interesting. I'm finding but anyway, yeah grammarly is great. I use it all the time
Do more questions. Do you have a favorite life motto that you often
Use yourself share with friends your family find useful and work your in life
I don't know that it it fits into a sentence, but it's something I always encourage people
Which is to really think big and think long
So, uh, I just started working with linked in as a consulting client
And I've talked to linkedin about working with them for six years
So never give up like just whenever you know, meet someone and propose something and suggest an idea
Like you never know where we'll go like I had that with with all through my career
With living in different places like really not think about the moment of where things will go
But you know just it's a relationship you're building you don't ever know where anything will happen. So look at the big picture
Love that and kind of following along those lines last question
Curious if something comes up here. What's your most what SEO win are you most proud of?
I don't know if I could say most proud of but I I really like what I do with tinder
Because it was understand like it it brought the entire
Journey together. There's users out there. They didn't know that tinker would solve a very specific problem
And it and it's it's just there to solve that problem
And it's not the way tinder thought of themselves
They thought themselves because of dating up, but it's a low meanest solution problem that answers a google search
Eli this has been awesome. I think this is going to help a lot of people think through SEO and especially
As they realize how things are changing. They're going to have this resource now to be like I see this is what I should change
This is what I should be doing and I just love especially the
The pattern and the thread of it's not actually that complicated you can do it even if you've never really done it before
So I really appreciate you being here and sharing all this wisdom with us two final questions work and folks find you if they want to reach out
To work with you also check out your book and finally how can listeners be useful to you?
So you can find me on linkedin so
Search Eli Schwartz
I and you to definitely look for my book
So book is product led SEO and it actually one piece on on just your own personal brand and your own personal rankings
It doesn't matter where you rank if you search your own name. So if linkedin shows up first for your name
That's great because they're finding you and a lot of times brands and people will be very focused on where they're positioned
But it's about the journey like if they find you they find you it doesn't matter
It's number one and that also underscores that it's it's not all about links
I believe for my own name and probably for you too
I outrank linkedin and my book so if you search product led SEO my my own personal website
Which is not have the best domain authority it out ranks amazon
So that should right away disapprove that it's all about links and it's all about
You know SEO metrics. It's really all about the right fit
So be the right fit and you'll show up where you're supposed to and then users can be most helpful for me by subscribing to my newsletter
And giving me ideas and feedback home to write really enjoy writing and I really enjoy hearing from people
So my newsletter is product led SEO calm
It's so consistent across all your things. I love it product. Let us see you Eli. Thank you so much for being here
Thanks for having me. Bye everyone
Thank you so much for listening if you found this valuable
You can subscribe to the show on Apple podcasts Spotify or your favorite podcast app
Also, please consider giving us a rating or leaving a review as that really helps other listeners find the podcast
You can find all past episodes or learn more about the show at lennyspodcast.com
See you in the next episode
(gentle music)

