Unfortunately this transcript does not contain enough relevant information to comprehensively cover the requested sections. It appears to be a satirical or fictional conversation without substantive details about a real technology startup, product, competitive landscape, etc. I did not find any sections that could be filled out accurately based on the transcript content. Please let me know if you need any clarification or have an actual transcript to analyze.

# Named Entities

## PERSON
- ##ele
- ##iden
- ##nik
- ##nsky
- ##o
- ##on Musk
- ##oz Allen
- ##ros
- ##sson
- ##t
- ##tnik
- ##ubi
- ##uck
- ##urg
- B
- Be
- Bo
- Bruce Koener
- Clinton Gore
- Dan Loeb
- Danny DeVito
- David
- David Sacks
- Dog
- Donald Trump
- Doug Burgum
- Dr
- Druck
- El
- Fannie Mae
- Freddie Mac
- George
- George Soros
- George W. Bush
- Harris
- Janet Yellen
- Jason Trinidad
- Jim Rogers
- Jonathan Haidt
- Kelly Lough
- Larry Summers
- Lu
- Mike Johnson
- Paul Krugman
- Pen
- Pence
- R
- Scott
- Scott Bessent
- Scott Besson
- So
- Stan
- Stan Druckenmill
- Summers
- Trump
- Vance
- Z
- Zele

## ORGANIZATION
- ##ERC
- ##RIFT
- Bank of America
- Bank of England
- Basel
- CB
- CBO
- CFTC
- CR
- Congress
- DDC
- Department of Government Efficiency
- Economic Club of New York
- El
- Elon
- F
- FDIC
- FSOC
- Fed
- Federal Reserve
- Financial Stability Oversight Council
- Harvard
- House
- IRA
- IRS
- ITC
- Interior
- JP Morgan
- OCC
- OFAC
- Office of Control of the Currency
- Princeton
- S & P
- SEC
- Senate
- Social Security
- Soros Fund Management
- Treasury
- W
- Wells Fargo and City
- Working Group
- Yale
- YouTube

## LOCATION
- Alaska
- America
- Bethesda
- California
- Chicago
- China
- Connecticut
- D. C
- DC
- East
- East Wing
- England
- Europe
- Greenwich
- Hartford
- Kyiv
- Main Street
- Main Street Wall Street
- Mar - a - Lago
- Nevada
- North Dakota
- Northeast Corridor
- Oval
- Oval Office
- Potomac
- San Francisco
- Singapore
- South Carolina
- UK
- US
- Ukraine
- United States
- Utah
- Wall Street
- Washington D. C.
- West Wing
- White House
- Wing

## PRODUCT

## EVENT

## WORK_OF_ART

## DATE

## MONEY

## QUANTITY



# Transcript


Okay, we are here in Washington D.C. in front of the White House, having spent the afternoon with
our friend David Sacks, our friend Elon Musk, and others. We are here to learn about the debt,
the deficit, what's going on in D.C. And we have an incredible interview lined up with Scott Bessent,
Treasury Secretary of the United States. It was amazing. And it's been an amazing afternoon,
and we're really looking forward to it. It was amazing. Well, this is the pre, the intro to the
video. It will be amazing. It's not the pre, that's just the most. What the fuck? We're gonna
pretend it's the pre. It's the it will be incredible. It will be incredible. But how cool is the White
House? And here's a bell. Okay, I'm pretty sure I'm pretty sure the bell can't even describe to
you the day we had running around. It's incredible. Running around room to room in the White House.
One of the best days of my life. It was incredible. I think this bell is probably pretty important.
Can you guys get a shot of this bell? So I just I don't know what it is, but it's really
important. Yeah. The White House, the people 201, super kind, super open, super curious.
I mean, did you felt it? You felt accepted? Yeah, I felt it. But I got free soda. They have a soda
machine where you can make any Coca Cola flavor you want in the White House. It was pretty cool.
I like some hummus. I wrapped it on paper. It's a cool afternoon. And this is what is this? The
East Wing of the White House. And we took a walk from the West Wing all the way over to the East
Wing through the portico. And then we snuck in or we didn't sneak in. We walked in and then we're
walking around the East Wing. We went to all of the private rooms. I got great photos. We'll slice
them into this video. And then some secret service dude comes up and he's like, what do you got?
What are you doing here? This is the residence of the president. You have to get the **** out.
He's like, you need to go downstairs now. So we got kicked the **** out. But it was an incredible
incredible tour. Super great. Yeah. Anyway, we're excited for this interview with Scott
Besson. Hope you enjoy it. Well, today's a really important day. We're joined by the 79th
Secretary of the Treasury, Scott Besson. And this is an opportunity that we wanted to take
as part of a longer form way of explaining to people, not just how the economy works, but in a
little bit more detail. Where are we in this moment in time? Where are we with deficits,
tariffs, the budget, economic, monetary fiscal policy? How do we make sure that we all understand
the plan to make America great again? So Scott, thank you for joining us. Good. Thanks for having me.
Wow. I actually want to start with, let's go back in the way back machine. So South Carolina,
your father was a real estate developer. Tell us where the passion for finance came from.
Well, I didn't know where finance in particular came from. As you mentioned, my dad was a real
estate developer, and he was kind of boom, bust, kind of guy. So I think that's when my passion for
risk management came from. But I was very fortunate. Went to Yale, wasn't sure what I wanted to do.
1980, when I got there, probably you all can't imagine this, but there used to be these things
called punch cards. And we just gone, the Yale computer system just gone from punch cards to
screens. I was going to be in a computer science major, maybe a journalist, because people actually
used to read newspapers, so punch cards and newspapers from the way back machine. And I got an internship
just for an individual, and he taught me the investment business really well. And I... And who is
that? His name is Jim Rogers. He's famous. He was George Soros's first partner. He had just
completed and around the world motorcycle trip and written a book called investment biker.
And a fascinating guy. And I did the investment business and I thought,
this is really what I like, because it's quantitative. So I got to use my quantitative skills,
but you're all also constructing a narrative. And it's also like human emotion.
And you were trading equities, bonds, everything, currencies? Well, I started out with equities.
And I did that for several years. And then I actually ended up at Soros Fund Management,
worked for a fellow who's my mentor, Stan Druckenmiller, who's incredible. I think he's on
more than 40 years now, never a down year, when you're sitting next to him. And what am I doing
all day? And notorious for going all in. Several times in his career. All in. All in. And... Only
when he's right. Yes, well. But he is the best at changing his mind. That's right. Of anyone I've
ever seen. So Druck has that famous adage, invest and investigate. Well, he has several. And I'm
trying to get him to write a book, because he has so many of these great things. Maybe you will
press him. But invest, investigate, it takes courage to be a pig. And then I was hooked on markets,
because again, it was quantitative. It was qualitative. And it's real time. You get real
time feedback all the time. And you're... You could have a long term view, but then you're trying to
gauge the short term against that. And I loved it. And for 35 years, I've gotten to...
I did what was called macro investing. So eventually I was trading currencies, bonds, commodities,
the equities, some credit. And I got to travel around the world meeting leaders and trying to
figure out what the next move was in policy. I think this is important, because I've spoken
with folks who trade in macro. And a big part of the role of being a macro investor, macro trader,
is really knowing where central bank action is going to be, really knowing how government bonds
are going to move and spending time with economists, not just central, but around the world and learning
a little bit about how capital is flowing all over the world. Is that kind of the right way to
describe that role of being a macro investor just for folks?
Yeah. It's a lot of that. There's another great
macro investor called Bruce Koener. And he had this saying that he said, "I succeeded because I
could imagine a different future and believe it could happen." So the keys to believe it could
happen and then manage the risks. So could you imagine what would happen if the iron curtain came
down? What would happen? I mean, you all do venture capitalists, but how could the world
live in a different state?
Okay. Well, let's hold that idea and double click for us to 92. It's probably one of the most
famous moments where the broader world at large met macro trading. And this is really where
you and Druck and Soros basically broke the back of the Bank of England.
And it's really an interesting window into assessing all of these things. So can you give us
the conditions on the ground at that moment and what new reality you saw for England? And then
it would be great. From there, we'll contrast and compare it to America today.
Good. So it's a great historical example. And it also kind of brings in three dimensions.
So I was the analyst. Stan was the portfolio manager. And then in a way, George was the risk
manager. So I was running the UK office. I was on the ground in the UK. And I had this light bulb go
off. And I thought the fulcrum thought or my differentiated view was that the UK had just
had a big housing boom. And UK mortgages at that time, they didn't have long-term mortgages.
They were all floating rates. So if the Bank of England raised rates on a Wednesday,
your mortgage went up on a Friday. The UK had hooked into something called the exchange rate
mechanism. They had to balance versus the Deutschmark. They had to stay within a band.
I noticed that if they raised rates to try to stay in the band and protect the currency,
it would be unsustainable because British homeowners would get bankrupted.
Stan's great feat of analysis was figuring out that these bands set up this incredible
asymmetric bet because I can push them up against one side of the band. And their mandate is just
to push me back to the other side. So we just lose two and a half percent. And Stan tells this
great story like telling George Soros, "Oh, well, here's what I want to do." And he says,
he told him, and George says, "Well, how much do you want to do?" And he said, "Probably 100 percent
of the fund." And he said Soros gave me this really sour, and he thought that he'd said something
wrong. Why wouldn't you do three times that? Anyway, we pushed them against the band,
the Bank of England, the British government had to buy this unlimited amount of pounds,
and they started raising interest rates, and this was September of 1992. And eventually,
they just weren't able to sustain the pressure from the high rates and came out. And then the
asymmetric risk reward was we made about 20-something percent in a day. And back to what was really
Stan's genius, I don't know if either of you played backgammon, but in backgammon, there's the
move after the move. And so Stan, we'd made all that money, and we were kind of euphoric,
okay, now what? Because there's gonna be the trade after the trade. So we made that much in a day,
but then it was actually the trade after the trade. This isn't well publicized. I think we made
another 20 percent during the rest of the year. Wow. So in that moment, what you're really observing
is that the real economy is somewhat dislocated, maybe meaningfully dislocated from the financial
economy in your operating. And I think you've said this now many times, and you've basically
used the terminology the Main Street Wall Street dichotomy. How do you observe the moment in 2025,
the maybe what rhymes with the early 90s or other periods where you've been trading actively?
Well, look, I think it goes back to something that's unsustainable, is unsustainable.
And one of the reasons I'm sitting here now is about 18 months ago, I went to see President Trump.
I'd known the Trump family for 30 years. I've never known the president that well,
but to tell him that I want to get involved in the campaign, because I was so alarmed with what
the Biden administration was doing with the deficit debt and deficit care.
Endless stimulus, endless spending, but endless spending when we were in
solid economic territory, or not in the war, first time ever. And I thought it was very cynical,
because I actually thought, well, we're going to spend spend spend, and then there'll be no choice,
but to raise taxes. So you'd go into this equilibrium that you could just never get out of,
and you become kind of a European style social democracy, the malaise. And I also think they
were very cynical on immigration, because if you take the stated number 12 million, the president's
number 22 million, I don't know what the truth is, kind of leaning toward the president, but it was,
oh, we're going to let all these people across the border. You can't ever make problems too big to
make them go home, but I like to stay in my finance lane. So the finance lane was, we're going to
just go to the point of no return and kind of inflict the progressive financial values on the
country. There'll be no way out. You have very meaningful wage suppression in that period,
and you had an equity market that was incredibly well bid, just because the money
to the body was just always there. Well, it was always there, and you had these distributional
aspects, because back to your question, Wall Street versus Main Street, that it was driving me
crazy when Vice President Harris said, "I'm going to fight for the middle class," and she'd
eviscerated the middle class, or these policies inadvertent intentional had eviscerated the middle
classes, and really the bottom 50%. So we're in this-- Because purchasing power goes down,
inflation went up. Well, if you didn't have assets, so-- That's really important. I think
people don't understand this, that if you had stocks, if you had assets, your assets inflated,
but if you didn't, the cost of everything inflated, but you didn't have the ability to purchase,
because your wages don't go up. Not only did inflation go up, but if you look,
Jason Trinidad has this thing, I think, because of the Everyman Index. So CPI went up about 22
during the period, but the Everyman Index was up over 30%, 35%, because the bottom,
25%, the bottom 50% of wage earners have a different basket than we do, and it inflated much faster.
Use car prices-- Car insurance. Car insurance rent, groceries. And not only is it unfair,
but it's just unstable. Great civil issues, societal issues. But sorry, as you guys got into
looking at this, and I remember Stan talking about this in the summer of '23, I think it was, or '23,
yeah. And what was the point of view on what should have been done at that point in time,
and then how much farther did it go? How much longer did it last?
Well, I think what happened, the Democrats will tell you that the big spending bills were needed
for rescue. And I would say in March of '21, the economy didn't need rescue. It was already in
recovery. So these were rescue-sized packages. And even Larry Summers, I remember there was a
great debate between Larry Summers and Paul Krugman. And Summers, I think, said, "Look,
this is at least $900 billion, a trillion too much, and the Federal Reserve was to the summer of '23,
'22. Federal Reserve was very slow off the mark, and we ended up, and again, imagine,
top 10% of his assets, stock market is flying. You're in the bottom 50%, you have no assets,
but you have debt. So credit cards are up, mortgages impossible to buy house,
house prices had gone through the roof due to COVID. So it really did, like,
end the American dream. But we'd been suffering these distributional effects.
Scott, what is the American dream today, do you think?
I think the American dream is what it's always been. But after World War II,
I think 90% of American families, the children made more than the parents. Now I think it's 50-50,
but to own a home, it's financial security. It's to some level of comfort. It's
purpose in your work. It's to be able to support your family, to be able to have choices, to
not have to work two jobs. I made a remark at the Economic Club of New York last week, two weeks
ago, and my Pence decided he was going to troll me. Because I said the American dream is not built
on cheap goods. And he said, "Well, yes, it is." And I just say, with Vice President Pence,
let them eat flat screens, economic policy. It isn't what people want. They don't want
the bubbles from China. It's like the old-- They want progression. People want progression.
I mean, I remember reading-- I think Jonathan Haidt had some work on this a long time ago
where happiness is measured by your change in net worth or income per year. It doesn't matter
what your absolute levels are by all these socioeconomic surveys that they do. That feeling
like you're having some progression in life is what folks are looking for. And I wonder whether
solving for that, we created a system-- and I love your point out your read on this-- that we said,
"Everyone should own a home. That's the American dream." And in order to do that, people put most
of their net worth into a home. 60% of middle class net worth is tied up in a single asset.
And then in order to get them to feel like they're progressing, we've created a system of loans
and a system of economic and fiscal policy that ultimately drives the value of the home up every
year. Now, we're in an unsustainable housing bubble. Most people can't even afford to buy a home.
What did we get wrong there? And how does that affect what the American dream should look like
going forward? Well, I think a lot of it's scarcity. What you're talking about is out in San Francisco,
super tight zoning laws. So there's scarcity for homes. If you think, like Ivy League education,
all of a sudden you gave all these people access to Ivy League education. You brought in international
students, but the number of degrees awarded-- Harvard, Yale, Princeton-- probably hasn't changed very
much since the 1950s. So you created just this demand for scarce things, which leads to this
anxiety. But you also created, I think, a sense of hopelessness through-- I can't actually-- I will
never get-- I will never be able to pay down my student loan. I will never be able to afford a home.
I can never see my income growing to give me access there. Is that a D-reg solution?
The first part of it is it's a data problem, because in order for the government-- I mean,
the one thing that struck me about, I think, this Trump 2.0 administration is,
I think you have a better beat on the fact that this data is not as reliable as other administrations
would say they were in order to do whatever it is they wanted to do anyway. So it's sort of like,
let me just find the data that justifies what my action is. And part of why you can't, I think,
tell the story is, do you trust the GDP numbers? Do you trust non-farm payrolls? Do you think these
are reliable enough for you to act on behalf of the United States?
No. Look, they're subject to big revisions over time. And I thought one of the big mistakes,
the Biden administration made, and thank goodness they made it, was they refused to vote. They went
with the numbers, not what the American people were feeling. They said, no, it's a vibe session,
and you really don't understand how good you have it. This has happened. This has happened.
When in reality, I was on Meet the Press yesterday, and there was something that said, well,
the American people don't believe Donald Trump's doing enough on the economy. And I told the host,
I said, you know, the one thing I'm not going to answer is that they don't know what they're
talking about. I have to have respect for how they feel. And then we need to go back and look
at what is causing this anxiety. So that's what we're going to do.
So let's peel the onion back. What do you think is causing this anxiety? Where are the levers
that maybe the federal government can control in releasing some of the pressure and what are
more market functions that just need to clear up some of these?
Well, look, I think we're trying to do three things. And I think you may have talked about it
last week before. The three legs on the stool? Three legs on the stool. And from the outside,
you intuited that very well. I would do just a little refinement on that.
That's what I was going to ask you. Yeah, just tell me where I was right in wrong.
You were adjacent to everything. So on one, we are trying to bring down this massive federal
debt, cut the spending, but in a controlled way. You can't do it all at once. I don't like to repeat
private conversations with the president, but I'll repeat this one because I think it's very
it really illustrates where his head was at. First time I went to see in the scene, saw him
at Mar-a-Lago and walk in the door and he said, Scott, how are we going to get these
debt and deficits down without causing a recession? And that's exactly where we are now.
How are we going to get the debt and deficits down, not cause a recession? And I said, sir,
when you win, you didn't get us here. We're going to set a goal by 2028. We want to get back to the
long-term average. We're going to deflate it slowly. Long-term average being about 3% deficit to GDP.
About 3, 3 and a half percent deficit to GDP. I keep saying the US, we don't have a revenue
problem. We have a spending problem because we are averaging right about 18% revenue,
and I'm talking about federal government only. We're at about 18% and Biden administration
blew it out, blew the spending out to 25. Normally, it's about 21, 21 and a half.
We have the 2% inflation nominal GDP, real GDP is 1/8, so we get nominal GDP 3.8 and it all works
out. It was very interesting. I had one of the heads of one of the Singapore sovereign wealth
funds here last week. Guess what Singapore spends in terms of spending to GDP?
They have no deficit, but they spend 18%. We have a lot in common with the Trump administration.
We like small government, we don't like illegal immigration, and we like personal safety,
which I thought was very interesting. Sorry, let me just understand. So deflating government
spending is key, but the big challenge has been that we have now accumulated 30-some-odd trillion
dollars nearly of debt, and the interest on that debt has started to grow. We now have to pay
$1.2 trillion in interest payments per year, so that starts to consume more of the spending
budget that we have at the federal level, which means we can spend less on the rest of the federal
government's programs, meaning you have to cut a lot more than you otherwise would have,
which is what makes it so difficult and so painful. Is it realistic that you can get Congress to act
in the way that Congress needs to act to get to the level that we need to get to,
given the high interest payments and the high debt level that we have?
With this Republican Congress, I'm not sure what a deficit hawk is, but I think I would qualify as
one. A lot of the Republicans, I actually have to coax him. You can't do this all at once. I was
with one of the congressional budget committees two weeks ago, and they really want to cut this
fast. I said, "You do realize every 300 billion we cut is about a percent of GDP." We are trying
to land the plane well, and the plan, because that's really what I would like to talk about today.
I think there are three plans here, but plan one, we are going to deliver the government via the
spending. We are also going to shed excess labor from the government, so on that side, and then on
the other side, we are going to deregulate the financial system. The regulated financial system
has really been what I call a regulatory corset for a long time. As we deregulate that, then the
private sector can re-laborage. The government de-laboraging private sector re-laboraging,
and the employment or the folks who lost their government jobs will be picked up by the private
sector. This is really important, and I think this is the most critical thing. I'm really glad
we got the chance to talk today, because I hear so much about the conversation on any one of these
topics independent of the others, and there's a relationship between them that I think is critical
to understand on how this administration is aiming to drive an economic recovery that is not inflation
areas sustainable, and also will allow people to have the American dream in a way that they
can't have access to today. Part of fixing the affordability crisis is we come back and talk
about it if you want, but where can we get prices down? Eggs are easier, but the other side of
getting prices down is getting real wages up. On getting real wages for working people up,
it goes back to the main street versus Wall Street, and the second plan is to re-order the
international trading system and bring manufacturing jobs back to the US and have reinvigorate the
middle class, because again, to use tariffs that we're needed to bring other countries
into line. And to create an economic incentive to onshore for some industries and some supply chains?
Well, so there's tariffs, then I think there are three other things we can do,
which are the centerpiece of the administration. We can have the low and predictable taxes.
We can substantially slash regulations, because regulations are the equivalent of
drive investment dollars, private investment dollars. And predictability in regulations,
and then cheap energy. Right, and sorry, what is the relationship between the tax cuts and
the getting to 3%, 3.5% deficit as a percentage of GDP? Especially because the CR unfortunately
gave folks a get out of jail free card because we kept the, you know, $2 trillion cap for the next
little long. Yes, but you're going to have, I've been in this building, I think this is my seventh
week, President Trump, been back at the White House for eight weeks, so you actually do need time.
There are a lot of people who weren't happy about the CR, but shutting down the government
when they're not either politically or economically. Does tax cuts get made up with tariffs,
or does tax cuts get made up with cutting government spending? Well, tax cuts will,
so tax cuts and deregulation will change the growth trajectory. Grow GDP. Well, grow GDP,
if trend line has been 1.8, if you can move the growth to three or above, then you really change
their trajectory, and if you can keep expenses flat or do the unthinkable and cut expenses,
then you can really- So this is important. So sorry, government revenue as a percentage
of GDP can go lower if you have lower expenses and a faster growing economy. I think that's like
really important for folks to understand that relationship. And so in isolation, tax cuts might
reduce revenue, but when done with reduced government spending and deregulation and a reordered
international trade model, you theoretically will accelerate economic growth in this country,
increase government revenue overall, even with a lower tax rate. That's kind of- Yeah.
Yeah. And I'll tell you, shame on me. I was in the investment was 35 years. I talked very
confidently over that CBO scoring says this, and it turns out I didn't know you know what about
CBO scoring. Like when you're on this side of the wall, you realize how crazy it is.
Right. It's crazy. It's quite a gameable system. It's very gameable,
and one of the most gameable parts of it is normal CBO scoring that- So we're calling,
we're saying that we want to renew the tax cuts. We're actually just renewing the current tax
regime that somehow after they expire, then they go back to the old rate.
Spending never changes. Spending never has to get renewed. And I think when I look and think
about a mental model and how do systems work, how do they break down, one of the things that has
caused this spending bulge is this idea that you never had to rescore spending. Oh, it's not.
And the incentive model is when you have a constituency that you represent as an elected
representative that's earning from that spending, they're telling you if you want to get reelected,
make sure my earnings stay, and get me more. And then every year you've got a set of elected
representatives who's, you know, primary objective in a democratic system is to go in and get more
money for their constituents. How do we solve that fundamental problem? How do you think about
that? Do you think that that's true? Do you think that most politicians are here to just get money
for their questions? Yeah, I mean, it's OPM. It's other people's money. Danny DeVito had that
movie. But you would regard that as being a good politician. Like you brought home the bacon
for your district. Because the CR, a lot of people didn't like it. But one of the things that a
lot of people didn't like, there were no earmarks in it. But how dare they? Totally. The Christmas
tree bill that kind of shows up at the 11th hour. Where everyone gets a little bit. Yeah.
Can you talk about? So we talked about this deregulation as this one very important lever,
right? So how do we add 50, 100 basis points of growth back in? We're going to do it through
deregulation. How do you undo the financial course at, as you said, what are the sort of
three or four big ideas that you'd like to effect? Yep. So we are re-examining
all the bank regulations. And why are they there? Why do banks have to,
like you remember, it's 5% or 7% to hold treasury bills? What are the regulations? Why do I had a
whole group of community bankers or small banks here last week? And why do they have to hold the
same amount of capital that JP Morgan and Wells Fargo and City hold when they don't have the
complexity that they don't have? Why do the regulators, one of these small bankers said,
well, you know, Bank of America does it this way. Bank of America has a trillion dollars in
deposits. This was a $183 million bank. Yeah. Well, when you look at the regulatory
overhang of some of these things, Basel 1, Basel 2, you have all of these frameworks.
And then as a result, all these organizations that are running around trying to help you
administer this complexity, all it does is just lower economic activity in the end.
Well, and, but it's, I know you all talk about incentives a lot. Back to incentives, what's a
regulator's incentive? Just to keep, like, keep tightening the core set. They don't care about
growth. Yeah. They, they don't care about the common sense. Turn off, turn off every risk.
It's their job. If you had to create a metric then to say, okay, here's how we're going to measure
this undoing of the financial course. Is it sort of the lending velocity by private lenders so that
the private re-leveraging can occur? Is that a good way to think about that? Or is rates a way to
think about it? Well, it doesn't have to be rates, but if we do all the things I was just talking about,
if we deregulate, if we have cheap energy, the, if we shed excess labor from the government,
if we get government spending down, then rates, inflation should come down,
rates should come down. Yeah. But the, on the question of how are we going to measure it,
I, I don't have any problem with private credit. Yeah. I actually think it's exciting. Yeah.
The dynamic. It's dynamic. It meets the business where it is. Yeah. Okay.
And the strength of the US financial system is the depth and now the breadth. But you, you could see
that what's happened, that so much lending is being pushed outside the regulated banking system
that tells you it's over-regulated. Right. Yeah. Right. So now, once we,
so one test will be how has bank lending, especially small regional, small banks, community banks,
they come undone, and the small banks, the small banks and community banks, they're 70% of agalones,
they're 40% of small business loans. And that's one of the reasons Main Street's been stifled.
So can you talk about then how you will work with the Fed in sort of
the change of all of this financial machinery? And you need to, and you need to work with Congress
too, to make these changes. And also just generally, maybe your thoughts on just the Fed in this process
of helper, foe, like, where do they stand? Well, the Fed,
I 100% support the Fed's autonomy in monetary policy. Yeah. I don't agree with it all the time, but
it's how it is. It's how it is. And so, and I said, I won't comment on perspective policy,
I can talk about their mistakes in the past, which have been numerous, but I think like with
any system, as it expands beyond sort of the core, I actually think that some of the things
they've done in regulation, some of the things they've done in kind of climate and DEI, some of the
things maybe even non-standard monetary policy threatens their independence. And I want them to
stay strong, robust, and independent of monetary policy on regulation. I think that they have
been much too harsh on especially the smaller banks, medium banks. So there's three main bank
regulators. There's the Fed, Office of Control of the Currency, OCC, and the FDIC. And then there
other regulators, the SEC, CFTC, but the banking regulators at the federal level are those three.
Here at Treasury, we have something called FSOC, Financial Stability Oversight Council.
And I chair that. And via that, the President's Working Group,
which is another convening mechanism that I plan to just keep pushing for safe, sound,
and smart deregulation. Like, why are we doing this? Why are we doing that? And again,
that there's a capital charge to banks for buying Treasury banks.
So I actually think there's a chance that if we take, it's called the supplementary leverage ratio,
if we take that away, it becomes a binding constraint on banks, we might actually pull
Treasury bill yields down by 30 to 70 basis points. Every basis point is a billion dollars a year.
Can we talk about that for a second?
So I think, and I've said this for a year probably, but one of the biggest mistakes
that I think Janet Yellen affected was this continued issuance of money on the short
end of the curve to finance these deficits, which gives you, you inherit, an incredibly
difficult challenge, I think, over the next nine months. I think there's like nine or 10 trillion
that has to get refinanced. Do you want to talk about that?
Look, I thought that when rates were low, you're supposed to turn out rates.
Exactly.
And instead, the Treasury for the past few years has pulled rates in, and I think part of that
was to keep rates lower, that they change the issuance schedule when rates move back up towards
5%. I have maintained that policy, but I'm maintaining it because, back to David's question,
of when are we going to see the results from getting the government spending under control?
And I don't think the markets recognize it yet.
Again, they're not sure what to believe. We hear this commentary a lot. There's just a
lot of uncertainty. There's a big spectrum of opinions there.
The central value tendency, the central value tendency, what's the center of it?
Because the range of outcomes is so broad, and we know there's a problem there. We know there's
waste, fraud, and abuse. Quantify it. So, I think as we are more able to quantify it,
we will get credit for it.
So, outside of waste, fraud, and abuse, as it's termed, I want to go back to the question I asked
earlier. How much does this administration need Congress to act to get to 3.5% deficit to GDP?
And what's your read on the Congress? And how willing and able they are to take the action that's
needed here?
I think there are a lot of headlines, especially after the CR, about the Democrats being in disarray,
and media likes to write about disarray. I think the untold story here is Republicans
have, for a change, actually been very disciplined. I think a lot of that, President Trump is kind
of shepherding the party, shepherding the movement. Imagine, he said, "Oh, that Mike Johnson will
never get reconciliation instructions out of, he's got such a slim majority." Well, he did it.
Yeah. He'll never be able to pass a clean CR. He did it. He did it.
So, let's see what happens with the budget. So, we need Congress to be our partners on the budget.
They're very engaged, the House and the Senate. Everybody recognizes that if we don't get this done,
it's going to be the biggest, it's pass/fail. It's the biggest tax hike in history. Where does
Doge come in? Well, Doge, that's the cost cutting, and it's the first time we've really ever had
business people looking at it. This Clinton Gore commission that we hear a lot about,
I think it was a bunch of business school professors. But here, you've got real CEOs.
You've got Lutnik, you've got Burgum, you've got Elon. I mean, this cabinet is stock full of
experienced operators that can go in and identify where there's an opportunity for
saving the taxpayers money and still getting the results.
Well, it's sad. We had this crypto council meeting the other day, and I was sitting as
looking at myself, Secretary Lutnik and Kelly Lough, where everybody was a market person,
like forget business, but with Doge, that I am completely aligned with what Elon's doing,
and everyone says, "Well, do you have to do it so fast? Do you have to do it?"
Like I said, I've only been in this business for seven weeks. I've only been in DC for eight weeks.
The thing I can tell you is, if you don't move fast, the vested interest will
weigh you down. The quicksand will come up or the clause gets sent.
Everybody's got lobbyists, everybody's got it. Think about it. Within a 10 mile radius of here,
25% of the GDP of the US pulsates through here, every day, and everybody wants to just skim a
little. I said to Elon, we were in a meeting, and I said, "People are mad at you because you're
moving their cheese." It's not their cheese. It's the American people's cheese.
100%. Every dollar spent goes into someone's pocket, and that person is going to fight
tooth and nail to get that dollar to keep flowing into their pocket. There is no winning in Elon's
role. Every single time he takes action, there are people that are going to come after him,
that are going to come after the administration. Obviously, it gets recast,
reclassified in media as being something different, but there's nothing but
downside as you make these changes to individual organizations that participate.
And then it takes a while for the flow of that money to find its way or those individuals to
find their way back into the productive private economy. That's where I think there's a big gap
and a big challenge in the perception of the actions that are going on with the changes right
now is everyone sees the cuts, but they don't see the benefits, and that's nine months,
12 months, 15 months down the road, and that's a really hard thing to reconcile for most.
Yeah, and I'd say that a couple of things, too, is everyone's hearing cuts,
and they think their government services are going to go ahead.
They're not. I keep saying it's the Department of Government Efficiency,
not government extinction, not government elimination, and can we make it run much better
with fewer people, with fewer costs? And I don't want to demonize any of these federal employees
as I tell you, in this building, I've been so impressed with the quality of the people.
I would have hired them in my private firm. They are great public servants. I need to stay
for the weekend. I need a 25-page memo in 72 hours. The super high quality. I actually think what,
when all this is done, there will have been two big savings. One will have been on these contractors,
which we were just talking about this. We were with Elon just now.
We were just with Elon in the West Wing, and the incredible stat he said,
"I'm not going to name the firm so that I don't want to," but he said this one organization
gets 98% of their revenue from that. I was in the newspaper, so we can say it. It's Booz Allen.
We were talking about this, and then we're going through the numbers on the other firms,
and it's just the whole thing. That's shocking. What kind of risk management is that, by the way?
But it tells you that they didn't manage the risk, tells you how entrenched they believe they were,
and how good it is for them, and how good it is. You're absolutely right.
And the way the GRIFT works, you can only have six month contracts, but they're people who have
had 46 month contracts. They've been in situ for 20 years. And it's this whole
DDC. I'm so happy there is transparency and visibility into this. If for nothing else,
the administration providing this level of insight and data, I think, is so important for
taxpayers and individuals in this country to see, to recognize, and importantly, to understand
just how much of this GRIFT is going on. It's frightening, and I'm glad that it's like being
addressed. And the American people can see if they want it. This is what I was going to ask you.
Let's just say that somehow the Borg slows this whole thing down.
What people say is that the conventional is involved, and then the only place to look will be
things like entitlements. Good question now. Do you think that that's true?
Well, I think that now that the cats out of the bag, that the American people
are not going to stay with this, is that maybe, again, here, maybe in the Northeast Corridor,
there's some pushback. But when I've seen the polling data, and the rest of the country does
not want this to stop, and this administration is not going to stop. The courts, they're trying
to throw sand in the gears with the courts, and how some judge can say, "Oh, all these workers
have to come back in." But I also think we've moved really quickly. Now, I think when we start
putting out some of the anecdotes, and the messages, and talk about what's happening,
I'll be talking about it soon. But there's one very large department that everybody deals with
on April 15th, that their help desk is fully staffed 24/7, 365 days a year. They have the same
number of people on Christmas Eve as they have on April 14th.
By the way, it's something that I've seen being a lightning rod. Theoretically, every dollar you
spend on the IRS, you get $3 back, or whatever it is. That's not necessarily true. I just want to
be clear that you can still get all your tax revenue at the federal level, but you don't need to waste.
I'd be the ultimate chump if I said, "Oh, we're going to cut spending," but I also cut revenues
with the IRS, which Treasury controls. My three goals are very simple.
Revenue enhancement, privacy, and customer service.
Totally. There's a body of knowledge that says, "If we just fed in," and by the way,
four or five of these companies can do this now, "If we just fed in this entire federal tax code
into these AI models, what you can give to Americans is a very guaranteed resolute ability to file
taxes with the assurance that there is no waste fraud and abuse." Now, all of a sudden,
you take this incredible weight off of people's shoulders. Sometimes, it is said that you get
audited for almost political reasons, it seems like. Not almost. We had a big announcement on
Tuesday, and we brought in the 200 Biden whistleblowers who have a lot to say about who gets audited,
who doesn't. They're going to be sitting in this building, working on IRS, the matters,
and understanding exactly how these audits get triggered, how these political witch hunts happen,
and trying to change the ethos of the building. Again, 99% of the people at the IRS are
good people. It's just like all these other agencies where they're bad folks.
To your point, this is where technology can create very reliable guardrails for the American
citizen, where it's like, "Okay, well, if this model says I owe $1,000 in tax,
this is it. I'm not trying to change anything." I've started all the information. Software first,
and you just know. Let me go back to entitlement. I talked last week on our podcast about Social
Security. Social Security has a $2.7 trillion balance, which is just basically a treasury bond
that they can't trade out of. Should Social Security have invested in the S&P or invested in
equities? Why don't we turn Social Security into a sovereign wealth fund and invest it for the
benefit of all Americans going forward? I think there's the optimal, then there's the possible.
George W. Bush tried to privatize Social Security, and I saw your numbers. Listen to your numbers
going way back in 1971. It was $15, $16 trillion that we'd have. I don't know what the numbers are
since W tried it. They'd be substantial. We wouldn't be thinking about a problem in a few years,
but I think now you got to play the hand. You're dealt. I think we are dealt with Social Security
hand, and I think maybe we could re-engineer it if we could create the sovereign wealth fund
and have that on the other side. There are a lot of philanthropists who are looking at baby bonds,
so if you can create an investment account for newborns, then that would run on a parallel track
to Social Security. That would be compounding. The other thing would be a safety net.
Yeah, but it's still sitting in treasuries on the other side. That's where there's an opportunity,
not just to drive up returns, but participate in the American economy and give all Americans
today the ability to know that they have some participation in the American economy rather than
having their retirement funds being sitting as a loan to the federal government for spending,
which I think could be a big dramatic change. I don't know if they need to be independent,
but I think it's a real opportunity for us. Are you excited by the idea this sovereign wealth fund?
I am. I'm excited by the idea. This is President Trump. Everything he does isn't in a straight
line, but I guarantee you. He has a destination in mind, and the idea that he's going to be the
first president in generations who is going to... He wants to create assets for the American people,
not just debt. He wants to take the debt down, and then this idea of assets, there's a lot of talk
about this economic deal we're going to do with Ukraine. That would have gone in the sovereign wealth
fund. Government has big stake in Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. When it comes out of conservatorship,
where does that go? I assume Doug Burgum did great work when he's governor of North Dakota.
North Dakota has the equivalent of two state sovereign wealth funds. They have 700,000 people.
I think they had $25 billion. Alaska permanent. But all that's from the natural resource money
going in. To the extent we start the other day when the sovereign wealth fund was announced,
President Trump surprised me in the Oval and said, "Could you make a few remarks?" And I said,
"Well, we're going to mobilize the asset side of the balance sheet." And all the gold books
said, "He's going to re-value the gold." I can say today, we're not re-valuing the gold,
but what we are going to do is Doug Burgum and Interior, every other department head, is looking
for the assets that we can mobilize. So if we have energy leases, federal government owns,
back to the housing shortage, federal government owns a lot of land in downtown urban areas.
Can we or in suburban adjacent things in Nevada and Utah, can we use that land?
Do you see a wave of privatizations as a way to both pay down the deficits and debts and also
just to... That's important to me. Why put it in a sovereign wealth fund versus pay down the debt?
Help kind of do the finance math for us. You think you can get a higher return.
Anything that beats our current interest rate? Not that I'm keeping score, not that I watch it
closely, but the 10-year treasury today is 428. It's responding well. Can we do better than
428? And I think with this group and this cabinet, and if we can put in right now, we're working on
the study group for the sovereign wealth fund. We want to do best practices. We're talking to
people around the world. We're talking to investment people. We're talking to a lot of the other
big sovereign funds, and we're going to do best practices. And we want this to be a legacy.
Totally. Well, we think Dan Loeb made this comment that the Australian superannuation,
they've got 30 managers, and they have as much on their balance sheet today,
and their fund, then Social Security does, about $3 trillion, and they have 7% of our population.
No, it's incredible. It's incredible. It's incredible. I was with one of the Middle Eastern funds,
and I said something about oil revenue. We haven't had an injection into the fund in 20 years.
Why was this such a miss for America? What happened in the United States was that we took every excess
dollar we had, and we invested it in the future. We built infrastructure. What happened that kept us
out of this model, where others were so successful, and clearly have now gotten ahead of us,
and their people have a greater kind of safety net than we do.
Yeah, I think it was just this idea of it was supposed to be a safety net, not some kind of
prosperity ramp. The old age and survivor's disability insurance fund. That's what it's called
right under Social Security is like. You've mentioned cheap energy as a critical part of this
holistic program. I think three times now. Where do we make mistakes in that path where energy
gets out of control? What do we need to do to make sure that energy, actually, the incremental
cost of the electron basically goes to zero? Well, I think the biggest challenge we're having right
now is trying to get private sector to lock in for some things that might not have a payoff
for five, 10 years. How do we avoid student body left, student body right, with administrations
coming and going? We're working on that. Well, this is an incredibly nuanced,
and I think an important point, because we have this very vibrant, as you know, tax equity and
transferability market that allows a lot of these organizations to make these five and 10-year
investment cases. For all the issues with the IRA, of which there are many, I think the one
narrow aspect that it did was it calmed the markets about the future of those specific
ITC credits and transferability. It's a critical thing because there was a report. You probably
saw it, but FERC said 90 plus percent of our incremental electrons as of December
were from sources that were leveraging these ITC credits and that transferability. To your point,
we have this very delicate balancing act of making sure we... There's the tax side,
but then the regulatory side, with fossil, it's tougher because it crosses a lot of state lines.
There's a lot more permitting, a lot less permitting for solar farm, for wind, for geothermal.
And nuclear? Nuclear is going to be a big part of it, but it's not going to happen tomorrow.
We got to fix the supply chain and the regulatory.
Well, we've got to fix the supply chain. We've got to fix the regulatory. We've got to decide
which model are we going to go with. I'm told that YouTube probably know more about
nuclear than I do. He loves it. I hate it. Well, no, I don't hate it. I like nuclear. I just think
it's 10 years old. He's a loser. Go listen to it. It's just not an investable thing for the next one.
Well, but other than that, it's important because the question is when it becomes one,
that's when we know we fix the problem. But to the point that it's not investable,
that's where the government needs to step. That's where we have to bridge to the technology.
We have to do the time arbitrage. Also, I'm told, especially with the smaller
SMRs, that you need to cluster them, and you've got to find somebody who wants to cluster them.
Let me ask you one more question as we get to the end, but what's been the most surprising
thing for you in this role since you've been in office? The national security aspect.
That I would say 40%, 50% of my day, treasury does a lot of national security work, whether it's
syphious in terms of foreigners who want to buy US assets, whether it's sanctions,
whether it's OFAC, anti-money laundering. We've just designated the Mexican cartels
as foreign terrorist organizations. We present Trump over the weekend, launched a very aggressive
missile strike on the Houthi assets. Underneath that, we had already been working for several
weeks on their bank accounts. Or anyone who was adjacent to them, the Iranians supply the Houthis
with their ecosystem. Previous to my getting here, treasury had disrupted the ecosystem so much
that the Iranians used to hand them cash. Now they're just handing them here. Take this oil tanker
and try to sell it. There is the ability to break that down.
When you go home and you're talking to your kids, you're talking to your husband, and you're like,
"This was so cool." There must be these moments where you're like, "This was so cool."
Do you have any anecdotes that you're comfortable sharing where you're like, "This is like,
I can't believe I'm doing this job?" Well, there have been several. But a good example,
my family was actually there because after the inauguration, I asked President Trump,
"I bring my family in, say hello, get a photo." And we're sitting in the oval, so it's myself,
my 11-year-old daughter, my spouse, 15-year-old son, and the President Trump's having a great
conversation with him. And then he said, "Well, Scott, while you're here,
let me call in these other two people, and we need to discuss this." So they actually got to see
government being alive. So there's that. I have to say, I think the moment with President Trump,
Vice President Vance, President Zelensky, was a once-in-a-lifetime thing in the Oval Office,
I hope it's once-in-a-lifetime. But I was sitting there in the front row of history.
Vice President Secretary Rubio, myself on the sofa and watching President Zelensky
do what I thought was the biggest diplomatic-own goal in history.
Yeah. I think you said it very well in TV afterwards. It really, really was, based on it.
And you said, because you were there, you tried to negotiate with him in Kyiv. It was a very
escalated, I think you used the word escalated, or high decibel conversation.
High decibel, yes. Yeah. So, but kind of my job for 35 years was to be outside the room,
trying to put my ear to the door, maybe lift myself over the transom,
figure out what the leaders needed to do, we're going to do, and then how it would affect the
market. Yeah. And now it's fantastic and amazing and stimulating and a little scary,
being the person in the room who has to, what should we do, what can we do, how's it going
to affect the markets, how's it going to affect the real economy, that what's it going to do to
working people in America? So, how do we fix affordability?
We're just going to have to go through, and where's the problem? What's the solution
in terms of like, are the insurance markets broken? What can we do? There's been no,
and I've been involved in the house building business. There's been no technological change
in house building in 50 years, maybe 60s. Some of the building codes go all the way back to the
Chicago fire. Right. So, what can we do that the way we categorize housing, it's stick-built
or modular? Is there something in the middle prefab? Is the more that comes out of a factory,
the more that it's standardized, that neighborhoods from DC to Bethesda, to Potomac,
you could be in contiguous neighborhoods, and if they're different municipalities,
they'd all have different building codes, not zoning, building. Why is that? They're adjacent,
why do the houses have to be? So, is there some kind of window guidance that the federal
government can give in terms of the more that comes out of the factory, the cheaper it'll be,
the faster we can make it, things like that. Is there pressure that you could apply or influence
you can apply? One of the things you mentioned earlier was just, you know, take San Francisco.
There's an artificial constraint that's created by the zoning paradigm, and it's not clear how
you unlock that. You know, it maybe is it up to private citizens to sort of like have regime change
at the local level. But how do we sort of unclog that part of it to marry up with this kind of
stuff? Because it would be great if you could just build up in many places. Yeah, well, I think
there are a lot of things where you can look around and find what's interesting, what's something
that's interesting that's being done somewhere. So, I lived in Greenwich, Connecticut for a while.
Maybe the richest suburb in America. There's a ton of multifamily there. Very expensive,
very nice multifamily. There's some affordable housing. But Greenwich is not all 10 acres
and a horse farm. The state of Connecticut has put in a, I guess it's a law that every municipality
has to allocate 10% of vacant land to multifamily. And if the zoning board won't give you a hearing,
you as a developer, you as a nonprofit for housing can go over the top and go to Hartford.
And then Hartford will give you the authority. Well, no town wants the state doing on their
behalf. So now the towns negotiate. So, I think that there are a lot of things that can be done.
Again, on insurance, is there something that I've been thinking about? Is there something the
federal government could do for California? Where we come in, everyone's paying homeowners insurance,
then there's reinsurance on top of that. Then I think the California reinsurance company is called
Fair on top of that. Well, it's a separate plan, but yeah. Yeah. But you're stacking it.
So, is there something we could do where you put another layer of private money in there?
And then the federal government is the fifth risk tranche. But it's a federal government comes in.
Can we mandate down here proper hygiene? Changes in the building code.
Well, changes in the building code, changes in brush cutting.
Material choices. Yeah. Right. Right. Yeah. Makes sense.
Right. So, I think there's a lot. And obviously energy, I mean, just getting back to affordability,
right? Energy costs come down. That's the thing. It took the words out of my health.
No, no, no, no. But I mean, energy costs are energy costs, but then there's also
that for food, the transportation cost of getting it to the grocery store,
everything that's made out of petroleum products. So, I think we can do that.
And, you know, I think there's a lot to do. Yeah. And it shouldn't be too hard. So,
we're actually, we should probably be announcing in about 10 days, we're going to have an affordability
affordability czar. But it's going to be someone with a lot of experience in supply chains,
figuring out what are a lot of the quick fixes we can do. Because back to the question,
what really has people anxious? Inflation for now is actually pretty close in. And
but the affordability has gotten so away from everyone that how can we bring that down? Yeah.
Yeah. Good. For all our friends at home who talk a lot about the conversation about climate change
and carbon free, I think one of the things that I always point out to people is the cheapest way
of driving energy production in this country is if there's a low carbon or carbon free alternative
that's out there that's actually cheaper than standing up new plants. And there's an acceleration.
I don't know how much this administration thinks about that relationship, but it seems to me like
if we can unlock energy production costs come down and this economy transitions.
Well, transitions. And I think it's also not being dogmatic. Totally.
I saw what the Biden administration did with EVs. I have an EV. I can't wait for it to come off
lease. And but also have a hybrid. And I think I'd fill it up maybe three times a year. But this
administration had a jihad on hybrids because they didn't pass the purity.
They were picking winners and losers in a way that a lot of us were left scratching our heads.
Yeah. Yeah. And I think cheap energy solves a lot of problems. Right. I think it'll and
cheap energy is energy security too. 100%. Because that's why Europe's kind of over a barrel
literally. And it's why the Russian war machine hasn't, again, literally run out of gas.
And to the extent that we believe we're in an existential arms race for technical supremacy,
it's really on one dimension, which is AI. And that is so needy of energy. So if we don't
pull all of these issues together and realize that we need to basically take the incremental cost
to zero, whatever we do, we need to create the incentives and package them all together.
I mean, we can't we can't compete manufacturing without energy. We certainly can't compete with
that energy. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, we're not going to crush labor like China and some other countries
have done. So we got to crush the energy price. Exactly. And when you're in the oval, what are
the truths and misconceptions of the president, meaning of the outside and what people know or
don't know? Well, how about this? We had a lot of foreign leaders come in. And I use someone in the
in one of their entourage is I won't tell you which one. But afterwards, he comes up to me and
goes, holy crap, because he's really smart. President Trump has perfect recollection because he was
talking about something that had happened in that country 30 years ago. And he said he knew really.
So the president listens. He is judicious. He is just taking it all in. He likes to see how people
react. It's just incredible executive skills. Yeah. And the other thing too, that he's tough.
But I went in and I showed him what we were talking about something the other day. And I said,
well, you know, this is going to cause some layoffs. Well, let's try to fix it.
Yeah, yeah. Let's try to fix it. So I always say he really regards himself as the mayor of America.
Right. Yeah. 330 million people. He wants to be personable to everyone. And he cares deeply about
all of them. And he doesn't care whether you're Elon Musk or the guy cutting the rose garden,
but you're his constituent. Right. Well, Scott, thank you so much for taking the time. This
has been a pleasure. And we really appreciate the insight. We wish you the best. Yeah. And thanks
for the service and thanks for doing the role. Good. Thanks. Thank you. Thanks Scott.
I'm doing all of you.

