 Welcome to the Deco podcast, where we bring you stories from founders and investors in
 Web3. Before we get started, this is not a financial or legal advice. It's just a conversation
 about things we find interesting in Web3. We use expressed are our own personal opinions. Deco
 members or guests appearing on the show may have positions on assets they talk about.
 All right. Welcome to another episode. Today we have Izzaz with us. I have been following Izzaz
 for quite some time. And his takes on AI, how deep he is into AI, his episodes with bankless
 as cohost on AI weekly rollup. And he's also a co-founder of AI Saturday now. So I'm looking
 forward to this one. Welcome to the show, Izzaz. Thanks for having me, Sarah. We're looking forward
 to this one. All right. So let's start big, pretty zoomed out view. I want to understand the
 entire AI start from you, right? I mean, you've been in the so-called trenches for a while. So
 make me understand the entire stack right from GPU marketplaces to training to inferences to agents
 and agent marketplaces while explaining every stack as to what unique problems that crypto
 solves at every layer. And, you know, does crypto need to be there in every year? I mean,
 should we be present across the layers or if there are certain layers that we should be
 optimizing for? Yeah. Yeah. Really good question. So I'll get into it. So the way I kind of view
 the stack, as you described it, would be at the bottom of this layer, you kind of have what I
 call AI resources. So these are like, you know, the minerals and the soil and the earth that
 you need to kind of build the foundations of a building, for example, right? So what are
 these things? You have data, you have compute, and then you have the model themselves, right?
 So think of a model as like a really intricate designed chip or a dam where you are about to
 allow water to flow through, right? You need to design it very precariously. You need to make
 sure that it's, you know, set up in a way that will allow, you know, intelligence to blossom
 from it, right? But a model in itself isn't very useful, right? So you need to feed it
 certain things in order for it to function similar to water flowing through a dam, you know,
 you're not going to generate electricity, right? So what are those things? It's data,
 and it's compute. And so if we start off from this bottom stack, your question is like, you
 know, how can crypto help here? Well, on the data side of things, most data, almost valuable
 data is siloed. Where has it, where is it siloed? It's siloed with all your top social media
 platforms that you use every day. It's siloed with your hospital, medical provider, and all
 these different things. And this kind of like drives back to a very old adage within crypto
 and blockchain, which is, you know, you don't actually own any of your data, right? And
 blockchain is kind of like help kind of like take that leap amongst like owning your data,
 whether that's as an asset or a token on a blockchain, or whether that's via encryption
 through ZK encryption and many other things, right? So that's how crypto can help on the
 data side of things. It can help aggregate, you know, crypto is very good at coordinating
 individuals. So if you were to coordinate a bunch of individuals to aggregate certain
 bits of data so that you can pull it together and you can have a very valuable resource that
 you can then feed through a model, that could be really useful. And there's a few examples
 of teams doing this. You know, you have grass protocol, which has been kind of like scraping
 the web for a while. And then you've got another kind of like perspective or approach to that
 is Vanna, right, which is trying to tap into the personalized data side of things. And then
 another team could be Masa to subnet on Bitensor, which, you know, are taking another approach.
 But the point is there are various different ways that crypto can help to get this data,
 this valuable data. On the compute side of things, think of this as like the electricity that is
 needed to allow your laptop or your terminal or your phone to work in the first place, right?
 Currently, the way that the web two way to do it is to, you know, tap into a cloud provider,
 like AWS, Azure or Google Cloud, et cetera, right? But there's a few kind of like concerns
 that comes around with this. Number one is centralization, right? So what if AWS decides
 to shut off your cluster or server or whatever that might be, right? Suddenly,
 your model won't work anymore. You're reliant and you're dependent on them, right?
 So that's why if you were to create a decentralized physical infrastructure network or depend for
 short, you could kind of like coordinate all this compute around a specific thing, which is like
 maybe to provide enough compute to train a model or enough compute to inference or to allow
 model to inference and inference for those who are listening that don't know what that means.
 It's like querying, basically. So when you type into chat, GBT, hey, can you give me an answer to
 this? Chat, GBT queries the open AI model, right? It says, hey, like, this is the question this
 person asked, right? So that's on the compute side. And I think crypto networks can do a really
 good way of coordinating compute examples of this could be, I don't know, IO net, render,
 prime intellect on the training side, new research on the training side. There's
 plenty of examples of these kind of companies, teams or infrastructures existing.
 Then on the third point around this, again, we're still on the fundamental layer, there's a lot
 to go through, right? Are the models themselves? Now the models are the trickiest, because typically
 you need a lot of research, AI and ML expertise, and just like a way to kind of like test these
 things out. And it's quite expensive to do, sorry, up if I'm being honest, right? But we're seeing
 kind of like open models kind of emerge. Probably the most famous and most recent one is this
 model called deep seek, which came out of a Chinese team, essentially. And they decided
 to open source this another example is llama, which is a famous open source AI model, which
 came from the guys that matter. So the reason why open models are really important. It's a
 few reasons. Number one, you're able to see how it's designed. So you can make sure that it's
 not biased or censored in a certain way that might implicate or, you know, extract from
 the user, the person that's using it. Like an example I always go to here is like, imagine
 you're using a model, and it's swaying you towards certain political beliefs that aren't
 necessarily true, or it's feeding you misinformation on the data that it's trained of. It's really
 important to know how that model is designed. Secondly, if that model is owned by a single
 party or single person, then you're now under the assumptions and objectives of that individual
 and person. Right. And that's why it's so important to potentially decentralize that ownership
 for that particular model. Right. So I call that kind of like the fundamental, the base layer.
 Right. Now moving up, it gets kind of easier to understand. The way I say it is, it gets
 sexier. It gets less boring. Right. So if you move up above that, you have something that I
 call the coordination layer. And this is where crypto kind of really shines. So if you think
 about this, you have the compute, you have the data, you have all the models. How do you know
 which one to hit at what time? And how do you know, like, which player within each one to hit
 at what time? It's kind of hard to figure out. Right. So if you had something like a coordination
 layer, which can help, you know, route every single request that comes top down saying,
 hey, like, I need an AI to help me give me a recipe to cook for dinner tonight. Oh,
 I need an AI to help sort my taxes out or whatever. It can route everything to the right model
 and use the right data and compute, etc. It can get better and better and better iterative
 loops. Right. The best example of this is probably Bitensor or a network called Alora,
 which currently just like helps route a bunch of these things and they control compute.
 They have subnets or when I say a subnet, I'm describing like an app or a team to help with
 data and all these different kinds of things. So that's the coordination layer that sits
 just above the kind of like resource layer. But really the coordination layer hits across
 everywhere in the stack. But I'll get to that in a second. Above that, in my opinion,
 you have something called the middleware layer. Now the middleware layer is kind of like the
 most web to component of this and how it decentralizes and whether it needs crypto
 is a big question mark for me. Right. So the things that would exist in this middleware
 layer are things like AI agent frameworks that we've seen from the likes of AI 16 Z,
 arc, virtuals. And the reason or purpose for these frameworks is an open source
 way or toolkit for people to build the application layer. And I'll get to the application layer
 in a second. But the reason why you need this middleware layer is all the kind of like stuff
 that happens in the back end of these applications. So we're talking about memory architecture
 of these agents. We're talking about data repositories, you know, what kind of databases
 do we use? How do we query them, et cetera. And that sits at the middleware layer.
 Now whether this needs crypto is a big question mark, for me, to be honest, I'm trying to
 figure it out. You would argue that if you wanted to create a fully decentralized
 application, you know, all the cypherpunks in the world would be like, yeah, like it has
 to be decentralized. How effective that is. I actually don't know. So it's something that
 I'm exploring myself right now. And finally, at the top of the stack, you have the application
 layer, which in my opinion will materialize in the form of not traditional apps, not
 traditional websites, but these things call agents. And the way I would describe an agent
 is kind of like an autonomous software fueled entity that can think for itself in just data
 and act in real time, make its own decisions, right? And an agent is not something that I
 think is contained within a single loop. It's something that can think in an infinite loop,
 right, technically, or theoretically. And what I mean by this is it can think for
 itself very much like a human, they're digital humans. And the reason why I think
 the application layer will exist in the framework of agents is because in a world full of a
 million websites and a million apps and a million bits of data artifacts, you need a
 much newer interface to interface with all of these things. And I think just one terminal
 where I can kind of talk to it, speak to it, or even like look or point in a certain direction,
 or better yet, it reads my mind makes sense. So hopefully that makes sense. Yeah.
 Wonderful. Thanks a lot for that explanation. I really love it. Now, while thinking of these
 different layers, pretty sure that different layers have different value accruers, right?
 And therefore, different business models, right? One of the examples that comes very quickly
 to my mind is virtuals, right? When things were going all right, they were making enough fees.
 And we did not rely too much on inflationary token supply or those things, right? I mean,
 the application itself or the protocol or the framework itself was generating revenue to
 sustain itself, right? What are the examples or what are the business models of every layer?
 And have we seen early evidences of, okay, like this is the business model towards which like
 everyone is kind of gravitating along all layers? Yeah. I think that that is the golden question
 that no one has been able to answer. And I think if anyone gives you a straight answer to that,
 so they're up there lying. And the reason why I say this is I think the crypto business model
 has only been figured out for a few things. And I mean really few things. You could argue that
 it's a monetary asset, which is Bitcoin, right? And you know, you get emissions from that. And
 you know, eventually once that emissions schedule declines exponentially, as it were,
 you're hoping that fees on the Bitcoin network will be worthy enough for miners to do that thing,
 right? Or for people to transact and run nodes and validators. So that's one thing. The other
 thing is stable coins, right? It's stable coins is like, okay, cool. We'll take just a fee.
 It's kind of like the Visa model in a way. And in fact, Visa actually makes, you know,
 a decent chunk of money off of fees from that. But I think when it comes to the AI stack,
 you can look at it in similar ways. So let's kind of like approach this. Well,
 let's look at the bottom layer of the stack. And let's look at the top layer of the stack,
 because there's two arguments for each one, right? Right. On the bottom layer of the stack,
 where it comes at the infra layer, you're kind of betting that the layers above it. So the
 coordination network, the middleware network and the app player are all paying some cost or fee
 back to that network. Right. So it's like, okay, we're going to distill these components down to
 the most valuable things, compute data and models. Everyone's going to need it. And maybe I make
 all my money from inference costs or training costs that are fed down to me. And the reason
 why I say inference and training is at the end of the day, what this stack has that's most
 valuable is the model itself. Right. So if you're training a model, you need to pay the
 compute providers and the data providers. And maybe that's just like through their own token.
 Right. And maybe it's just like a payments mechanism. That's what I'm seeing right now
 today. I don't know how useful that will be another kind of model that I'm seeing is like,
 you know, they pay each other or they pay for their each of their resources in whatever currency
 and then they buy back their token and burn it. Right. But my question then becomes,
 what happens when these tokens kind of like reach a certain point where it like becomes
 in order to be expensive to use or whatever that might be. And that's an open question for a lot
 of crypto protocols. Right. And then if you look at the top of the stack, not specific to AI,
 I think that that is bad is across the world. Yeah. 100%. It's not specific to AI at all.
 This is a crypto problem that needs to be resolved. Right. And then on the application layer,
 if I'm being honest, you kind of see a similar thing. Right. So all the AI apps that I've seen
 exist today in the form of agents use some kind of staking or payment model. Right.
 And the common example is hey, pay to access this terminal where this agent will now give
 you alpha. That's AI XBT. Right. Or stake a certain amount of this token. And now you
 can get different tiered access. Right. That's cool. And everything. And I'm seeing like,
 you know, there's potential buybacks and other agents and stuff like, I don't know,
 hospital beds and other stuff that aren't coming to mind right now. It's all cool.
 Whether it's sustainable in the future, I have no idea because most of these things aren't
 revenue positive yet. Right. If you want to talk about revenue positive crypto apps,
 they're ones that either don't have a token or just had a token. Right. I look at Kaito as the
 most obvious example. Right. They're technically profitable, but they have an AI powered app
 versus a crypto native AI app. If that makes sense. Yeah. 100%.
 You know, when you were talking about this, I was thinking about how all of this is similar
 to blockchains themselves. Right. For example, I think you have made this comparison in the
 past time, just extending that to what you said right now. So if you look at a value chain of
 layer ones to be precise, you have block producers that are pretty close to what the chain is.
 Right. I mean chain is a bunch of nodes where some of the nodes are proposing and building blocks.
 That is the one end of the value chain. And the other end of the value chain is something
 that is pretty close to the user. Right. Which are like applications like our way
 and whatnot. Right. Where user interacts with on a daily or regular basis. And if you see the
 distribution of value in the blockchain stack, you see that the value from adjacent layers
 kind of starts flowing back to either the block producer or at the top of the stack with applications.
 What I mean by that is if you look at bridges, if you look at solvers, if you look at any of
 the middlemen, when there is enough competition among them, they have to bribe a block producer
 to make sure that their transaction or whatever they are building kind of gets included inside
 a block. Right. And similarly, at the top, I mean, if you look at applications like Moonshot,
 they are charging like a 2.5% fee for every transaction to a user. Right. And users are
 willing to pay that because the UX is cool. Right. I mean, it's not country and people who
 probably don't interact with change way too much or on chain applications too much.
 These applications are solving some sort of a problem for users.
 So I don't know if something similar can emerge in the AI stack itself.
 Yeah, probably. I think we're going to see a lot of this come to life. Well, actually,
 I was going to say soon, but I don't know how soon. I think there's a few other kinks to
 be worked out, especially at the middle where layer. Right. That's why a lot of these agents
 kind of like seem or appear very similar. Another question I have with the way you just
 described that syrup is how efficient are these things going to be compared to like the web
 two version, right? Where it's just all contained within a single vertical stack.
 You know the team that's working on this stack and you don't have a million other teams that
 you need to then query or talk to that are kind of anonymous. Right. Oh, you can't.
 There's no support team. Right. So I'm curious whether it'll actually give an advantage
 of a web two stuff. Yeah. And one general question before we move on. Okay. I mean,
 I also want to understand like how the layers at the bottom, I get the layers at the top,
 but layers at the bottom kind of compete with companies that have billions of dollars of
 budget. Yeah. When it comes to, I mean, whether it is models or GPU stacks or whatever,
 right? I mean, how are we competing with those companies?
 Yeah. So the point is like, when you have many versus one, you can potentially overcome the
 bigger person, you know, the bigger bet. And the thing that's kind of been a huge challenge
 for the compute side of things, and I'm speaking specifically for the compute side of things,
 is it's hard to kind of like put all these random GPUs together because, you know,
 they're all different flavors. They look different. They act different. Some are older,
 some are younger. And you're kind of like moving at the point of your weakest man or
 your weakest GPU. So this guy that's like higher performing is always going to be held
 back by the little guy that's kind of underperforming. Designing new techniques and ways to train
 and allow models to be influenced was crucial and held us back. But now with some of the
 advancements that we've seen from the guys at NUS research, prime intellect, they're making
 like huge advancements, Jensen is another one, you know, they're actually figuring out ways to
 train. So I'm convinced that at scale, if you have enough of these GPU clusters in a decentralized
 network, they could actually end up becoming really competitive. The second reason why
 these decentralized compute networks are super important, Syrab, is ownership. And the fact
 that it isn't a single cluster being owned, right? And I think that that maybe philosophically,
 and maybe in a slight way, ethically is way better than the centralized version.
 Now on the data side of things, here's the thing. I think data is actually one of the most important
 things. I don't know how that's going to get solved in a decentralized manner. If I'm being
 very honest with you, like, you can scrape all the web data that you want. But there's a bunch
 of web to companies that do that as well. Right? Exactly. The most valuable part is the
 personal side of things, which is under silos. And you can't tap into that. You would need
 to pay for it in some way. But you're still in some way relying on the web to side of things.
 So I actually don't know how that's going to get resolved currently, right?
 Maybe if we create some form of app or social app that is so valuable that people all want
 to migrate there and give up their data in an open source manner. Sure. But it's kind of
 harder. I don't know how to wrap my head around that particular point. And yeah.
 All right. Yeah. I think that's the best we can think about at the moment, right?
 I'm not sure whether we have pinpointed answers. But let's switch gears.
 Let's get a little specific. I think a month ago, I mean, because you said money and blockchains,
 right? In my mind, blockchains use cases in terms of whatever we do. I think when it comes to money,
 it's really specific. And we've seen products, the product market fit, right? And stablecoin
 is a subject of that, right? Yeah. So this is why I was looking into DeFi and where AI plays
 a role in DeFi, right? I mean, I don't know how to pronounce it, the DFA. I call it DeFi AI.
 DeFi AI, right? I mean, that's the best way, probably. Yeah.
 I was looking into it about a month ago, and I was trying like different applications and
 what was there available at that time. And I realized that most of the applications are clunky,
 right? Either they don't do what they claim to do, or they take an awful lot of time to do
 whatever we can do, right? I mean, if I were to swap entries and whatever, like, I would do
 it way quicker than any DeFi AI application that is out there right now,
 which is fine. The whole space has been around only for a quarter or so. I can't expect like
 crazy level of smoothness out of them at this point, which is fine. But as I understood the
 space, there are like three or four sub categories that I can divide it into, right? One is
 intelligence. Of course, something like any HPT, right, working the relentless key to scour
 through Twitter and figuring out what alpha is and whatever. Then there is curation bit,
 because AI XPT is also throwing like a thousand tweets at me every day.
 And it's not humanly possible for me to evaluate everything that AI XPT throws at me. And then
 there is execution or abstraction, whatever you want to call it. Like something like Refinder,
 where, you know, I don't even know, as a user, I don't know how it is bridging what
 chain it is interacting with. All I see is, you know, swap happening or financial transaction
 or an exchange happening. Now, if I were to look at users in terms of concentric circles,
 for DeFi and for crypto at large, the largest one is centralized exchange users,
 which are probably like 150 or whatever the number is that Coinbase tells us.
 And DeFi is like a tiny circle inside of it, where it is predominant with developers,
 then the outside of that will probably be power users. And then there will be late
 on chain users, right, who see someone talking about Trump and they go and swap maybe like
 once in three months or whatever. But if we are to expand these circles and capture more users
 from centralized exchanges, it needs to get easier. I get that. Right. But we also neglect the fact
 that centralized exchanges also perform duties of curation. Right. Because the user who goes
 on centralized exchange doesn't have to bother about several tickers that look the same.
 They don't have to worry about what the correct contract addresses and so many things.
 Right. It's just way too easy because centralized exchanges are the curators as well, along with
 everything else. So now my question is, what is happening in this stack? Where does the
 value occur? Because centralized exchanges are kind of gatekeepers. They also are charging
 for curation. And they have that power. Right. You have the power in the sense that
 when a token gets listed on a centralized exchange like Binance or Coinbase, you have a lot of
 saying what happens to that token. Right. So the question is, when all of this is happening
 on chain with the use of AI, are there just going to be new gatekeepers who are curators and
 they extract value from users just as centralized exchanges too? And yeah, I mean, about abstraction
 and Intel. I don't know if there's a lot, but yeah, like let's tackle one by the
 lot. There's a lot to unpack. So like to answer your like most imminent question that you just
 asked. I mean, are the centralized exchanges, there's two ways to look at it, right? Are they
 the biggest extractives? Or are they just the most efficient and easiest use case? Do they
 have the best product out there? I mean, you could argue that it's the latter, because everyone
 still wants to use their app. Everyone could. They know that they both. They know that they
 are the easiest to use. Exactly. Yeah. And I don't think there's any difference between
 crypto centralized exchanges or any other web to product market where you have, you know,
 the top dogs and you have the bottom dogs. Right. So in my opinion, I think this plays out.
 Oh, we've actually kind of like seeing certain trends play out. So let's look at the centralized
 exchanges. Right. So you're saying a lot of people still use centralized exchanges. I think
 we need to zoom out a step back a bit and ask ourselves, why are they using centralized
 exchanges? Okay, because they want to buy crypto. Why do they want to buy crypto? Well,
 if we're being honest with each other, they want to make one any reason. They want to make
 money. Right. Okay. And do they know all the tokens that they want to buy? No. So they
 go onto Coinbase because they see an article that Bitcoin has broken 100k. And they're like,
 damn, well, Bitcoin's so expensive. I can't afford a whole Bitcoin, but I should be able
 to buy some other coins. Right. And then they go on and they see familiar names like XRP,
 Doge, Cardano, and they're like, Oh, these are still so cheap. What if they get to the price of
 Bitcoin? So there's a lot of psychological stuff that go on. Right. And so your point is like,
 well, exchanges will just own the entire moat. Right. And on chain is just too hard. It's
 just for power users. Well, there's one main reason why people will migrate to on chain
 eventually. And that's because the long tail is typically where you can make the most returns,
 right? Or the most alpha can be seen that. That's number one reason. Number two is you're
 betting that eventually the liquidity volumes on on chain exchanges or DEXs will eventually
 match that of centralized exchanges. You're actually seeing that with a lot of major assets
 already between Coinbase and say, if you want to compare it to Uniswap, you know, on Ethereum
 or across base or whatever that might be. The DEX volumes on many days actually outpace
 centralized exchanges. Right. So you can kind of see this kind of like trench.
 Yeah. I want to push back there a little, I think the highest volume that we have seen
 in terms of ratio of next to centralized exchanges is around one is to five. So 21 percent has
 been the highest. Yeah. So far, one day a few at least, and I know I'm cherry pecking data
 points there, but one day a few days or at least monthly DEX volume of lost cycle at least.
 And maybe even this cycle where Uniswap outperformed Coinbase into.
 Yeah. But if you, yeah, if you take aggregate decentralized exchanges versus the centralized
 exchanges, oh, yes. Otherwise wins. Yeah. It wins hands down. Like it's like 5x from
 correct at the best. Right. And 10 to 15x when like regularly. Yeah. But you're right.
 I get that like on a daily basis, sometimes Uniswap has surpassed coinbase.
 Yeah. And the point I was making is definitely not that Texas are a better experience
 and are beating centralized exchanges. It's more so that we're starting to see a shift or a trend
 towards, you know, DEX is being viable or a viable option for people to use or for bigger
 institutions to potentially trade on. And I think one of the main reasons why we haven't
 seen continued kind of or more aggressive trend towards this is because these things
 are really hard to use. Number one, and two, there's just so many assets. So to your point,
 like the curation has been terrible. It's been so bad. Right. So then kind of like,
 I'm trying to remember the first question you asked, which is kind of like, you know,
 where does this end up? Like central, do these on chain equivalents of exchanges
 with AI end up becoming like, you know, the new extractors? I wouldn't describe them as
 extractors. I would just describe them as like a better user experience if they're able to
 achieve it. Right. Because at the end of the day, who cares where I'm buying it from?
 Right. Whether it's Coinbase, whether it's Moonshot, whether it's Phantom Wallet.
 I don't know. I just want to buy the thing and I want to make money. Right. And my bet is,
 it's not going to be an individual app. My bet is it's going to be a singular terminal
 that you interface with. That's going to not only help you do the execution, but it's going
 to do the curation. And it's going to be personalized as well, Sarah. It's going to know exactly
 the type of things you want to ape. It's going to know when you want to ape.
 It's like, oh, Sarah, I'm getting his salary payments. So I'm obviously using this
 hypothetically. Typically, he puts some stuff aside. So let me get the hottest picks for
 today or for the last week, because I know what kind of data he wants to look at. Right.
 So I think it's just going to end up with a better experience. And I think that's better
 for the market overall. Yeah, that's fair. I mean, it's like, I should be able to give it,
 like my risk tolerance, my goals, like your financial advisor does, like outside of crypto.
 And then you know, suggest you a bunch of things and perhaps even execute on your
 behalf within the limits that it is allowed, right? Correct.
 And there are a few agents that are running kind of like internally right now
 that are playing around with this thing that can already do this, but to your point,
 this industry is still super early. And we haven't seen even similar things
 emerge from like the web to agent world, right? So I do think it'll take a little bit of time
 to play out. I recently spoke to Chris from Albert, and I think he mentioned that they are
 working towards something similar. Are there any more names that you know of? Can you share?
 Yeah, I mean, like the Griffin guys can already run this internally in beta.
 Agent tank ran a demo. I haven't played around with it, but I think it was a local demo where
 you can set guardrails on, you know, specific websites that you navigate to or that you allow
 your agent to navigate to and they can only trade within a suspending limit and within certain
 market cap sizes of tokens on a given particular day. That is, you know, five days old or whatever
 that might be. So you can set all these different kind of limits up. The other kind of like,
 much, much safer play that I've seen is like on protocols like Giza, right? Where it's,
 these are all like, you know, do you remember year and finance where you could just like
 deposit and like earn off of stablecoins and stuff? I feel like some of these agents are
 running back the same playbook. It's up like, you know, it's an agent workflow and all that
 kind of stuff. I don't know how much of this is like autonomous, if I'm being honest with you,
 but we're starting to see kind of like safe plays from there. Wayfinder, I actually have
 been dying to play around with Wayfinder. I don't know if you've been able to do so, but
 you know, I've heard that they've been able to do pretty cool things as well.
 I mean, I've already seen the Twitter videos and screenshots or whatever.
 That's my biggest gripe, Sarab. I'm, yo, let me play around with these things.
 Please, you know, I need to see whether these things actually work.
 Yeah. You know, I've been, we've been burnt way too many times by the demos and videos
 of applications, you know, that cause every time something cool, which is not in the production,
 I see something like that. It quickly reminds me of that, me, where you know, when you start
 the house is great. And by the time, you know, it's all terrible. Funny you should mention
 your finance. I think that was the first attempt at automation of any sort where
 yield aggregation was kind of automated for an end view.
 Well, I would counter and I would say that set protocol back in the day.
 They were the oach. But you and finance were the ones that like made it like way more
 popular. Right. But yeah, I mean, you had a few people who were designing strategies and you
 still relied on those people. Right. I think that is why scale was an issue for you on finance.
 And if an agent platform or an agent can take that form, I think that would be scalable to
 whatever users we have. But let's see if that happens. Okay. So if you were to build something
 like this from scratch with, you know, crazy wild possibilities in your mind,
 what would that agent look like? What would be your personal go to be fine agent? And how could
 they be like they push the boundaries of what is possible today? Yeah. I mean, it's a boring
 answer. But I think it's the truth. And also the nuance happens in the execution of what I'm
 about to say, right, which is it needs to be an agent that makes me money. I don't care.
 Anyone that says, Oh, you know, it needs to be able to handle stable coins and all this.
 No, no, people only come to crypto right now to make money. So you need to appeal to that
 particular use case. So it would be some kind of a trade or agent. And in my opinion, and this
 is where like it's a hot take maybe is people that come to crypto right now. And I'm just
 talking about right now, get dopamine hits from making a much larger amount of money
 over a shorter period of time than they expected. So I would argue that this agent needs to
 be able to trade on chain. That's typically where all those conditions are matched with,
 right? And so I think it should be an agent that is able to trade within a specific range
 bound. It can, you know, maybe play around with a couple hundred bucks to start off with.
 So it's definitely gaps that you don't end up losing like, you know, more than your net worth
 or more than you like, you know, want to do in the first place. And it's able to show
 you returns within like the first like couple of days hours, or even like, you know, minutes.
 Now what I've just described is of course, like the dream, right? It's what everyone
 wants to make. I think it's going to come down into the execution. I think right now, a lot of
 people have been kind of hesitant to launch early fledged product because they haven't
 really thought about it intricately, right? So like the earliest example that I can think of is AI
 16 Z wanting to launch an autonomous trader, right? We haven't really seen it come into
 production. And I think like these guys are probably like one of the more advanced teams
 in terms of like the time that they've spent building this. But this still hasn't gone
 production live. And I think there's many reasons for that. Number one, it's just,
 it's such a hard problem to solve. You know, right? There's also a lot of pressure on like
 that thing making money. If it doesn't make money, you know, you lose the entire reputation of
 everything, right? And number three, it's like, okay, well, what do you trade? You need to like
 take inputs from like some of the best traders in the world and all that kind of stuff. But
 if I were to build something, it would be something along like a trade aeration that
 actually ends up making you money, it would be on chain specific. And it would give you
 that dopamine hit of maybe playing with higher risk ults. Of course, it needs to come with
 the disclaimer that, you know, you could lose potentially all your money, right? And so
 it would need to be kind of like capped in that way. So kind of like a DJ and trader bot,
 I think would be the one that I would think would do the best. And I actually have a proof
 point for that, right? Which is, and again, I keep mentioning this damn agent. The reason
 why I'm mentioning is because it's just like the easiest one that I can point to, which is
 this sports betting agent called us Billy Bats. I don't know if you've come across it at all,
 sir. But this thing is like, it's got a higher win rate than like any average beta by far,
 right? So it started off with 100k book. And I think it's at like 150k right now,
 which is pretty insane, right? And I'm watching this. And I'm like, why is this so appealing to
 me? A guy that like doesn't watch half the sports that it's betting on, right? That has
 no idea some of the parlays that it's doing. Why is this so fascinating to me? And I'm like,
 oh, it's because it connects to the real human world. It's because it's relevant,
 and it's because it speaks to humans or its community in a way that is relevant and that I
 feel is human. That's the AI XPT effect, right? It's like, why do I relate with AI XPT? It's
 because it sounds like me. It sounds like a crypto DJ. And so there's this whole community
 and human aspect that I think often gets overlooked. Everyone's like, hey, if I get
 an agent that just trades and shows graphs, that's going to be cool. It's going to make me
 so much money. Yeah, maybe for like power users, but for like a wider audience of social people,
 probably not. So yeah, all right. So follow up question, right? I want to take your
 trader agent and scale it, right? Let's say that everyone has access to your trader that is
 making money, right? The question is, like, money is made in markets by exploiting
 inefficiencies, right? Whether that is, you have some information that others don't or whatever,
 right? For sure. When everybody has access to this trader, does the trader end up making money?
 No, that's why I don't think everyone should have access to it. I think it will hear me out,
 right? I think any kind of strategy that is open source is just obviously going to get
 off a trudge. Like, that's not going to make it, right? It has to be proprietary. Why is
 asked Billy Betts the most? Again, I keep using this as an example. Why is it so successful?
 It's because it doesn't like lay out its bets until 10 minutes before the game starts,
 right? So it's already raised its bets before, right? Now, of course, the crypto answer would be,
 hey, let everyone get access to it. And I don't agree with that business model.
 Maybe that's because I have a, I don't know, a web to background. Maybe it's because I'm
 secretly going to order it. And so if you wanted to take it a step further, you could be like,
 okay, fine. Eventually, when ZK encryption is able to be scaled, you can encrypt everyone's
 bets. So therefore, you know that everyone like, you know, gets access to a certain thing,
 but like, you know, that it wasn't shared before and everyone feels good. But at the end of the
 day, Sarah, it needs to have some kind of tiered access. Otherwise you end up creating a savings
 account. And that's a completely different use case. And maybe you can do that, right?
 A higher savings account sounds great. Everyone gets access to it, but a lower APY, you can't
 get the high APY and everyone gets access to it. It doesn't work. It's not market efficient at all.
 Yeah. I think that's fair because it's just for split and supers, right? If everyone
 is doing the same thing, you're not going to make money. I mean, you need to be in the minority
 of a trade or whatever investment thesis that you have to in order to make money, which is correct.
 I think, yeah. So far, I mean, beyond DeFi or anything else, where do you think that the whole
 AI stack has not exploited a particular opportunity? Or what would you like
 the agents or marketplaces or anything that is to do or to solve a problem that is currently
 being kind of ignored by them? Yeah, it's a good question. I spend quite a bit of time
 thinking about this. So I'll give you my boring and sexy answer first, which is,
 there's a lot of backend stuff that I think needs a drastic, right? Which is like, you know,
 hey, I need data for this model. Go grab me data, right? But then you need to do a ton
 of other tasks to it. You need to clean it. You need to label it. You need to structure it.
 I think all of that shit can get automated in a way, right? And I think agents will be the
 smarter employee to do all of this. Like all this kind of mechanical Turk startup,
 I think can be done by an agent effectively. So whether it's data aggregation in the example
 that I just used, whether it's managing liquidity pools on Uniswap for certain positions,
 for certain hedge fund managers or liquidity providers, or whatever that might be.
 I think there's a realm for a lot of these unsexy agents to do well. It's kind of like a
 gig economy of like unsexy agents that I think will be really useful. And then the other thing
 that I think would be kind of interesting for me in that, again, I'm still trying to figure out,
 like how exactly it materializes is, I'll ask you this, what's one thing that these
 crypto agents will have in common with, you know, like web to use cases, for example?
 Are they easy to use? I don't know. Right. Exactly. You can go through the same terminal.
 That's the whole point, right? Right. Like it looks like chat GBT,
 and it does all the things chat GBT does today. But I can also do some crypto stuff.
 That's pretty cool. I'm not getting out of that app. I'm not leaving that app ever.
 Exactly. Right. So now what I'm thinking of is, huh, what web two things can we integrate
 into the same crypto product that will then tie in users to use more of the crypto stuff,
 right? My guess is some kind of a finance app that I can pull up on my phone, right?
 That earns me yield or something like that. You know, I don't know what the US equivalent
 of those things are, but like something like that. And then it does other crypto native
 stuff for me. Right. And ironically, Coinbase or other central exchanges are the furthest
 along with this. Right. Like, when I was at Coinbase, I was helping build out their like
 DeFi yield product, which allowed people to earn APY on their assets. Right. What happens when
 Robin Hood, who allows you to already do that on certain stocks, allows you to now do that
 with crypto assets. I think we're going to see a merge of different things here.
 And I think there's an opportunity for agents to kind of like capture that crossover.
 Yeah. Right. Makes sense. And the reason why I asked you this question was I was talking to
 Shaw last week on the podcast. And he was telling me that governance is in crypto in general,
 can be streamlined using AI agents, right? And he was mentioning that they are building
 this particular agent using their own infrastructure, which is also a good strategy, by the way.
 I mean, if you can talk food, your infrastructure, I think nothing more like it, right? I mean,
 to show what it can do and how things can be built. So yeah, I mean, that was my motivation.
 Yeah. I mean, Shaw's been saying this from the start, right, which is like,
 I should just make the UX of using crypto way, way easier. And it's a simple, but very powerful
 statement. Yeah. It's difficult to execute because just there are so many things that need to
 be brought under, as you said, one application. And it needs to look clean, right? Because you
 can't throw too many things that a user in the first go and scare them already.
 But it's forcing crypto to do something that they've never done before did, which is like
 build like a really good product. Like it's good. It's like forcing people to actually think from
 first principles, what do the user want? Not, I got to create this L2, and it has to have a
 million transactions per second. No, like, what is the thing? Why are they using the transactions
 in the first place? I'm hopeful that the current state of the market forces. Yeah,
 at least a few such applications. It will. Yeah. I mean, you know, those are the only,
 I mean, there are benefits to prices going down, versus you to pay attention to certain things
 that can work. And I just hope that it happens this time. And, you know, we don't go back to
 launching agents that do the same thing and name coins that do nothing or whatever. But yeah,
 I think like I was going through your Twitter to prep for the episode, right? And you've,
 I think mentioned once or multiple times that AI will bring more capital on chain,
 because I think that is one of the most important things that we would want as an industry
 is to grow the pie. And nothing like growing a pie, then helping create another way through
 which liquidity flows in. So just to walk us through how that happens, who does that?
 How AI plays a part? Yeah. So most people probably won't like this answer, but it's
 going to start off with the Web2 institutions. They have the mode of users to start off with.
 So I think, and these don't happen sequentially. It happens at the same time, what I'm about
 to describe, right? So firstly, all the attention is happening with the Web2 stuff, right?
 Why? Because they have a higher trust, higher reputation ranking, and people already have
 accounts there, right? So they're like, all right, I'll just go on Coinbase and use their
 agent or I'll just navigate or let them tell me what to do. And you know, I'll trust them,
 right? The second thing that's going to happen in parallel is I think we're finally going to
 see some of the most useful crypto apps emerge. It's our up. And I think it'll come in the form
 of agents. And a lot of people think I'm crazy, because I'm just like, I keep saying this word,
 agents, agents, agents, and you are right to call me crazy. But when I look over the fence into
 the Web2 AI world, I see a ton of these things pop up. And guess what? They're actually generating
 revenue. And they're actually making meaningful impact on everyone's lives, right? And it's
 in boring things, right? It's a little give me examples. Yeah, yeah, there's like an agent
 that I was looking at yesterday. I couldn't play around with this because it was a supply chain
 agent, right? For shipping specifically. And there have been many teams that have tried to like
 just make this entire shipping kind of like thing really simple and easy to use. And the
 reason why there's so much abstraction and challenge there is because there's a lot of
 human interaction, right? There's a lot of paperwork and stuff like that. And you had this agent,
 which basically was designed to interact with humans only digitally. So remember, I just
 said there's a lot of human interaction that needs to happen, right? But what happens if
 this interaction was just online, like, you know, using text or an automated call that you could
 speak to someone, right? And they could speak back to you. And they sound like, you know, like,
 chat GBT and voice mode, right? Have you ever used that? Like, for me, I can speak to that
 guy all day, right? Because his tone changes when he has ascribing something. Anyway,
 so I watched this entire, like, agent demo, where it just basically ran through the entire
 supply chain of all the different intermediaries. And I did it within a day versus the week
 or two weeks that it typically takes. And the reason why it was able to do that was because
 it was already plugged into calendars, slots and everything where it was able to just book,
 call the relevant person and act within its own realm, right? I kind of like an agent in turn
 that ran within this, like, supply chain situation, right? And that already saved the company a
 bunch of money and actually ended up being able to take on, like, more customers within that
 demo. And that demo period ran between, like, I think, like a couple of months or whatever
 that might be. I must stress that this was something that I saw on X. So it might just all be misinformation
 completely. So I don't know. But that was the most exciting one that I kind of saw recently,
 right? And so there's a lot of agents that I think are going to be making impact, particularly
 within the enterprise realm, as well on the Web2 side of things. So what I'm seeing is there's
 a few agents that are helping and software engineers hate this, but like, assist software
 engineers, you know, check relevant code to make sure, you know, it's written in a certain format
 away, or, you know, check whether they could add certain things to it or suggest certain
 things to it. It's kind of like a coding co-pilot, right? And there's a bunch of these things
 that exist on things like Langchain or autogen, which are some of the Web2 agent frameworks
 that exist out there, right? Not Web3. So I see this kind of like happening on the Web2
 world. And I'm like, huh, I do think they'll be spillover or a lot of similarities that
 appear on the Web3 world simply because there's nothing novel in how that technology is being
 used here, which couldn't explain why it couldn't be used on the Web3 world as well.
 So, you know, I forgot what the original question was. But that's kind of like how I see it playing
 out. Yeah. All right. Have you also seen, I mean, this is about supply chain. I mean,
 is there anything more where you've seen something like this and seems like, okay,
 there can be a product market fit here, for what specifically? No, no, for agents and,
 you know, like you talked about the supply chain stuff, right? I mean, it is solving a
 real use case. It's bringing in more efficiencies for the system, right? Was there anything that
 you've looked at that is using a Web2 stack and, you know, kind of helping, I don't know whether
 it is in your workflows or helping companies in any way, basically. Aside from the supply chain
 example. Aside from the supply chain example, yeah. Yeah. So it was the enterprise stack that
 I was mentioning earlier, right? Which is like, okay, so one thing that I've seen kind of like
 play out is, okay, you have this agent that is able to make the whole strategy. So end-to-end
 product process a lot more efficient. And this doesn't mean that there's an agent that's creating
 the product and running all the meetings and stuff like that. But it's an agent that exists
 on your own internal company database that can help things such as scrum meetings,
 certain Slack messages for pointers, keep track of certain employees on certain kind of like
 work schedules, like geo tickets and all that kind of stuff, basically making all of this
 stuff a lot more efficient, trained on company specific data. And it makes sense, right? Because
 like, you need specific data to make sure that your AI agent kind of acts effectively.
 Now, how much revenue that actually leads to, I don't know, because all of those company things
 are kind of internal. I'm hoping that becomes public soon. But those are kind of like the
 less sexy, but important things that I think we'll start to see first. It'll be a lot of
 knowledge work that gets optimized first, in my opinion. Yeah. All right, that's fair, yeah.
 And like, you've been probably in this meta right since the start of probably even earlier,
 I'm not sure. But like, is there a blind spot currently with people like, as far as outside
 is a concern, are there blind spots that they are not at all thinking about in terms of
 capabilities of AI or agents and what they can do for these people? Blind spots in terms of
 how they can help or what how they get has actually. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, I think about
 the challenges a lot. And I think about it in context of myself. So I think I have a ton of
 blind spots. And I'm constantly trying to find those blind spots and then like fix them or
 learn them or do the best that I can. And so I think data is one that we haven't,
 we've actually mentioned a few of the challenges. So I'll just quickly run over them and then
 move on to the second part data. I don't think it's something that we've solved, right? Okay,
 you can have all the fancy model ownership, all the fancy apps in the world. But like,
 you need important data to be able to make these things like really that much better
 than the web to alternatives, the web to social media apps and all that kind of stuff.
 The web to chat GPTs that already know enough, right? Now the pessimistic view is we're never
 going to get that data. It's going to be useless. The optimistic view is if I create a good enough
 app that people want to talk to, right? Like a chat GPT, but for crypto and maybe a bit of
 web to as well, people are going to just end up giving me that data anyway, right? Because
 they're talking to it, just like I'm talking to you, right? So I can build up a profile of
 an individual just right now from the start. And that would should be enough of a leverage
 for me to kind of like build out a useful product from that. So maybe it is as simple as that,
 right? So that's on the data side. The other side of things is just like the UX is just
 terrible to use, right? And so I kind of wonder like, will this improve or will we
 add too many intermediaries that it still won't be good enough to use, right? And that's like
 the point that we're trying to like kind of like figure out. We've proven that it works in
 terms of like stablecoin transfers and all that kind of stuff. Like it's good enough,
 it's better. People are increasingly adopting stablecoins. The US is now super
 pro stablecoin. We'll see where that runs. But those are kind of like the challenges.
 The opportunities that I don't think will be that has a mid looked at right now,
 there's a few that which again, get people are very riled up that I think should be focused on,
 you know, within a certain extent, which is the social side of things, which is, okay,
 right now, you have a bunch of crypto DJs from siloed communities, talking about their token,
 talking about that coin, right? But I wonder how like how you combine a bunch of these users so
 that they become multi chain users, right? And the reason why I'm making this point is
 agents won't care what chain they act on. They're not going to be chain specific.
 They're going to be chain agnostic. So there's a cultural evolution that needs to happen
 within the crypto community specifically. I actually think it'll be easier
 to get non crypto people to use these new crypto AI apps versus encouraging the crypto people to
 use the crypto AI apps, right? Because they're so tribalistic. And I think that's just going
 to be a painful evolution that we need to kind of like figure out, you know, over time.
 So I think those examples probably are like top of mind right now,
 agents should be in total. Yeah, that's what you'll see.
 Yeah. Well, think about it, right? Like we saw virtuals that launched on base,
 launched on Solana and everyone on base was crying. And it's like, well, hang on a second.
 Like you want these agents to work across both chains. You have a bigger total addressable market.
 You want that to happen. But you know, people are just like, they're thinking too small.
 Growing the pie is not allowed in crypto. He says, yeah, it's ironic. We talk about
 growing the pie, but no one actually wants to go to buy it.
 Yeah. But in that, I think I tried K and on to use, I mean, to swap token from one chain to
 another. What do you know? It was quite quite all right at that. I did have to tell it what
 trades or whatever. And it was all right. I mean, it took longer, but it was fine.
 It did the job for me. Yeah. Yes. And I think that'll get quicker over time.
 Right. Yeah. Like you think about someone who isn't you,
 Sarab, who doesn't know, I could just click this and do it myself.
 They'll be like, Oh, you know, this is, this is much better. I couldn't do this on coinbase.
 You know what I mean? This is much better. Right. Now it just needs to get quicker.
 Once it can happen in like a fraction of a second, you have a better product.
 I mean, boring, but correct. I think analogies to use the internet, I don't need to know TCP/IP.
 Exactly. I don't care. Correct. I shouldn't know chains and bridges and any of it.
 You know, the saying we're so early. We are actually too early.
 And it's preventing us from building good products.
 Yeah. But we honestly looking at CT that changes based on the price, right?
 Whether we had to early or it is too late. Yeah. Exactly. Yeah.
 Let's move on to. Yeah. So the red dull. Tell us what has happened until now.
 What does the roadmap look like? And what is your, like moonshot hope for the dark?
 Yeah, sure. So for context to those listening, myself, this guy called Marcus and Rope Roperito,
 who is one of the head engineers at News Research, we kind of like got together and we were like,
 okay, we're getting a lot of inbound from builders in the space, ecosystem participants or
 contributors to different kind of like agent ecosystems coming to us and saying, hey, like,
 can you help, you know, maybe fund this team or, hey, we're seeing this kind of like gap in the
 market and we think we should build A, B and C for it. And there's only so much that like
 Rope, Marcus and I can do individually. So we were like, hey, I wonder if we can scale this
 out into like a larger community and do something pretty cool here. So we decided to form this
 dow called, I just call it an accelerate dow. Some call it AI accelerate, but I just call
 it accelerate dow. And it's focused is basically to build out this entire crypto AI ecosystem
 in as decentralized the fashion as makes sense. Right. And so we launched this dow and it had a
 pretty spicy start. Well, Marcus Rope and I made the fumble of assuming that, you know,
 this would go kind of like under the radar, we were like, oh, it's on a bear market day,
 no one will care about this. It's great. We can kind of like start small and then kind of
 build slowly, slowly, slowly. And it just had a crazy launch. It went to an absurd market cap,
 which wasn't justified at all for the time being. And you know, we got a lot of flack and hate
 from that, which was, in my opinion, justified to an extent, because you know, we hadn't
 had investing and obviously we're retroactively gone back and we've added that. But the deed
 was out there at that point. Right. And I don't want to hop too much on about that. So in terms
 of like what we want to do with a dow, there's three things. Number one, we have an internal
 core developer team, which is building out along a product roadmap, which we have designed.
 And by we were talking about Marco or burrito and I, right, the core contributors right now.
 And that roadmap is very much focused on building out things that plug gaps that we
 see currently in the industry. So this could be ecosystem tooling. This could be agents themselves.
 This could also be frameworks that we think meet a different bar that hasn't been satisfied
 by other agent frameworks right now. I think what we publicly released on our roadmap,
 I think it's pinned up the top of our official account is we're releasing two agents soon,
 where we've currently been behind the scenes working on that for about a month right now,
 or about a month and a half. And we're really excited to where it's getting. But you know,
 we're going to internally test it first, which we have been doing. And then we're going to
 release it publicly. So there's two agents. One, there's going to be a research focused
 agent. The other is going to be that trader type agent that I mentioned earlier to you,
 Sarah, that I kind of want to see kind of like out in the world doing things,
 right? And then there are certain tools that come with that that I think would be useful for
 builders specifically. So that's one kind of bucket. The second bucket is an incubator.
 So the reason why we wanted to set up an incubator is we see all these teams that we
 want to work with, but we don't have the means to kind of like scale that. We also
 equally have a bunch of really passionate individuals within our own network, within our advisor
 group that want to help these teams build something really cool. I mean, the number of
 times that come across a really great builder that just doesn't have the resources has been
 like too many times. So I want to be able to facilitate and foster those kind of builders
 to do something cool. So we're building out an accelerator, which should be live soon,
 which will basically take a very small cohort to start off with and run it on a two month
 sprint. So by the end of those two months, you should have something that is not only
 demoable, but accessible to the public to use within a certain beta testing group.
 And you know, it'll be open for investment at that point, right? Similar to like a
 white combinator model, if you like. And then the third bucket is something that
 we're working on because we wouldn't need to set up the legal infrastructure and everything,
 but it will allow us to invest in teams that we have really high conviction in, right? So
 whether that is in token specifically, or other such vehicles, like we're trying to work
 out a way that we can do that. And the reason why we think all these three buckets is super
 important is in our opinion, it's the number one way to build out this ecosystem. We need to
 invest in the space, but you also need to build yourself and also partner with and build with
 other teams. That's why the accelerator partnerships that we've announced officially to date have
 been with virtuals and would send AI. So there's some really cool things in the pipeline that
 we're going to announce over the next hopefully couple of weeks that we're really excited by,
 but I can't mention right now on this episode. But the point of all these partnerships is it's
 going to allow us to scale those three buckets. Yeah, all right. Fair. Yeah. And like, what is
 your moonshot hope for the accelerator? My moonshot hope is we build one of the best applications
 or agents that are used by like the majority of people in crypto. And I actually really believe
 that we have the capability to do that. And the reason why I have so much conviction is
 between the three of us and a bunch of our Dow members right now that we have in our
 internal discord, which we're going to make like public soon. There's just so many ideas and so
 much talent between that network that I fully believe we can do something cool. There's a lot
 of experience. Yeah. All right. And the problems that we talked about, right, in terms of
 sustainability, in terms of value accrual, how do you think of yours or the dollar? Yeah.
 So I think create a really valuable service and charge it like a web to model. So that could
 be subscriptions. That could be a one of payment annual payment, whatever that might be.
 And the reason why I say that is I think the number one important thing is to
 onboard not just crypto users but non-crypto users as well. So you need to give them something that
 very familiar with rather, right? So that's the onboarding thing. I think once you've
 onboarded a ton of users, then their data, they use interactions, you can do a lot more
 powerful things with that. Okay, then the critique I get with that suggestion is what's crypto
 about it, right? Well, the crypto side of things is you can, what you do with the revenue that
 you get is completely up to you, right? You can buy back and burn. You could put it in a
 treasury. You can get the doubt of vote on how you spend that treasury, just like a shareholder,
 meeting or whatever that might be. You can do a bunch of those things. But I think keeping the
 front end very web to is way more important than people expect. Yeah.
 Fresh. Yeah. And I know that, like, you know, if I was to ask you about if you were to do a
 doer, what would you do differently? I think the forget about the token bit, right? I mean,
 I think you would have added vesting here, whatever at the beginning itself, if you were
 to do it again. That aside for a builder or a founder who's, you know, who's trying to think
 of building agents or whatever within the stack, is there any learning or anything that you
 could have done differently? Can you share something of that along those lines?
 For sure. Yeah. So aside from the vesting thing, what I would do differently is I would take
 more time, include more people in that opening round. Now, a lot of people are like, okay,
 well, this was kind of like a cabal situation. The reality was that, and I mentioned this in
 my kind of postmortem tweet after all of this went down, was that we were just so
 swept up in the excitement of everything that we just wanted to get this out there.
 I also don't know how much it would have worked if we just did a fully open launch,
 because they would have just got sniped. And the people that would have ended up holding it
 would have been, you know, non-believers and probably would have dumped the token anyway.
 I don't know, right? We've seen it with a bunch of pump fund launches and all that kind of stuff.
 So I think somewhere in between was where I was targeting, and it was too concentrated.
 I think we should have spent a little more time kind of like building out for a wider
 audience. That being said, I don't know whether there is a perfect way to launch a token,
 you know, it depends on many things, which is like market conditions,
 and who gets, you know, access to these things, how much they can buy.
 But no one can kind of like judge in these open markets what kind of market cap it goes to,
 right? If AICC went to like a 20 million market cap, no one would care.
 Everyone would be like, cool, right? But it's because it was so hyped up that it just got sent,
 and you know, there was a bunch of issues around that.
 And then number two, I think something that's important is to have something viable,
 ready to go right from the off. The way we were thinking about it is, okay, let's start this
 down and then work with a really small group of down members to build this thing out, right,
 grassroots. But I think because of the way it was launched and because of how much hype it got,
 people were expecting a product tomorrow. And we're in reality, like, we want to take our
 time to build this thing. I think it's super important to take good time to build something
 really important, right? And then number three is, I think when you describe something as a
 dow, a lot of people have a certain understanding of what that word means, right, which is like,
 anyone and everyone can vote on this thing and, you know, decide the direction of where it goes.
 And I don't necessarily believe that's true from day one of that dow. I think eventually
 it's super important. But I think from day one, I think it's super important to kind of like,
 have a focus team that's super passionate about it, typically the founding core contributors
 to guide the direction of that dow. Yeah. So I think making that clear would have been
 important. Yeah, fair. All right. So most of the tokens are, I don't know, 70 to 90, 95 percent
 down, most of the tokens, right? Yeah. Like given that, which are the teams that you are still
 excited by that, okay, these are the guys who are actually building regardless of
 what the enthusiasm of the market looks like, and which are these like areas that they are
 operating in. Yeah, I think I want to avoid like being described as like a shell for certain
 things. Because like the things, the teams that I mentioned now could change like next week,
 but I will talk about sectors that I'm super passionate about, right? The number one sector
 that I'm excited about are these agent platforms. And the reason why I'm so excited about them
 is I don't think they're going to just be launched platforms. I think they're going to
 enable this thing called what I'm calling the agent app player or the services layer,
 which I think, you know, you're talking about revenue models. I think which is where most
 of the revenue is going to get made, right? So I don't know how you want to describe this in
 the web tool. Maybe it's like a Zapier for agent services. But the way I think about it is,
 okay, you have this launch platform, which allows you to create an agent and a token.
 But realistically, you need these agents to be really useful. And how do you make these
 agents useful? Well, you can design it custom on your own way, plug in APIs, all that kind
 of stuff. But it's very tiresome. What if they could tap into a layer, which allows it to
 get whatever service or function that it needs, it could even engage with another agent. I think
 that to me is a very useful moat. And I see a bunch of these platforms that are already
 created and are going to be created thinking along these lines, right? And with that in
 conjunction comes this whole idea of like swarms right now. Now I have the number one
 criticism for agents forms, which is like, why do you need a swarm? Can you just run it in a
 singular instance? And the answer is, in most of those cases, yeah. But reality, many people
 are building agents for specific niches and verticals. So you're going to end up with a
 bunch of agents with you like it or not that do better service than you whether you like it
 or not, right? So these agents are going to have to talk to each other eventually. And I think
 figuring out how those agents interface with each other is going to be super exciting. So I'm
 excited about those two things. On the agent side of things, I really want to see some of the
 application agents like killer, right? So I think we're going to see an agent somewhere
 in the DeFi AI world, whether it's like a sports betting agent or a trading agent,
 actually end up doing really, really well. And outperforming the market, I think it's going
 to be under proprietary trading algorithms. I don't think it's going to be public. And that's
 completely fine. But I think it's going to be enough to get people kind of going. And then
 the third thing that I'm really excited about is the unsexy part that I started this entire
 episode with, which is the resource side of things. I actually think some of these
 deep in networks, specifically compute and training are going to get really, really powerful. If you
 look at like what news and prime intellect and now Jensen recently just announced are working on
 it very, very early. But if you can actually create a network that people can have ownership
 in that train AI models to like a really good like specification, that's friggin awesome.
 Right. In my opinion.
 Now, I think funny that you mentioned why should there be multiple agents and this is my thinking,
 correct me if I'm wrong. So I think when I was writing the DeFi article, I talked about how
 hedge funds have different teams. Right. I mean, one would be doing research, one would be doing
 simple trade, literally the trade execution. One would be, you know, kind of monitoring the
 risk, whatever like risk team. And there does need to be these separate teams because they
 are very, very specialized. But only when all of these work together, they can make a hedge fund
 like successful. Right. It should be a very well oiled machinery. So does it matter that
 whoever is building agent has that kind of nuance in that field. Right. And it is difficult
 for a one person or a one team to do it all to do it all by themselves.
 Agreed. Agreed. I mean, the most obvious data point is humanity's market. Right.
 Like, we're all specialized in doing certain things, you know, yeah, I agree.
 And there's a reason why XPT is not doing everything together. Right. And so I just feel that
 eventually that was what it will be. I agree with you. It's the conclusion I've also reached,
 and I used to be a swarm hater. All right, he says, is there anything else that you
 want to end this with? Any advice anything that you want to share? Something that I might have
 missed out on. I don't know. No, I don't think you've been very thorough. All I would
 say is what I say to a lot of people at times like this when the markets are down is study
 and don't give up. I think a lot of the alpha, whether it's investment alpha that you're looking
 for or just, you know, a chance to satisfy your curiosity, which is like what I try and do a
 lot of the time is there during down markets. And put it this way. If it is all bullshit,
 you'll find out the same way. So you would rather study and figure it out now so that
 you can spend your time doing all the stuff. And all I will say is my head has been down
 studying and I still haven't come up for a so there's a lot to learn. Keep studying.
 Thanks a lot, Jesus. Thanks for spending the time.
 Always, thanks for having me.
