Here is the analysis of the podcast transcript, organized into the requested sections:

1. EPISODE CONTEXT
- Podcast name and episode focus: 
The Long Game podcast, focused on recent changes in SEO, AI, and their impact on how SEO will be done moving forward.

- Hosts and their backgrounds/roles:
David Lee Kim, Co-founder of Omniscient Digital

- Guests and their roles/backgrounds:
Senuka Karunaratne, Co-founder and CEO of Daydream (platform to automate programmatic SEO end-to-end). Previously founded Flix which used programmatic SEO to refer subscribers to streaming companies. Also was an Entrepreneur in Residence at Hustle Fund and Chief of Staff to COO at Pango (cybersecurity company).

- Featured company overview: 
Daydream is a venture-backed company automating programmatic SEO end-to-end. Senuka's previous company Flix was a bootstrapped company doing lead generation for streaming companies using programmatic SEO.

2. KEY INSIGHTS
- The way companies reach users through search is fundamentally changing due to AI advancements. Google is adapting with SGE while also being challenged by new AI-powered search experiences. Optimizing for search will expand beyond just Google to include alternatives.
"I think the way companies will reach users through search is just changing on two very foundational levels. So one is the place that people take their search queries to and the way that those questions are served is changing a lot... At the same time, now Google is being challenged by a bunch of other alternative ways to serve these search queries..."

- The way content is created to answer search queries is also evolving rapidly thanks to AI. Beyond templated programmatic SEO, AI enables creating higher quality, customized answers at scale to a wider range of search patterns.
"The other piece that is pretty important is the way that content is created to answer these questions that people have is also changing... now with AI, you can create much more like far more customized, flexible, and like in general, higher quality answers to a wider and wider range of search queries that are not so rigid in their structure."

- Despite short-term flux, search will remain a massively valuable acquisition channel long-term. But many open questions remain around zero-click results, market share between Google and alternatives, etc.  
"No matter how you look at it or what changes, it's pretty clear that search will remain like a massively valuable acquisition channel in the future. But there's a lot that's you know, a lot of like bumps and things that are changing in the short term, like, oh, well, you know, there's going to be more zero-click search results, what percentages will Google take, what percentage will go to other companies."

- For most companies today, Google is still the primary focus, so Daydream is focused on helping companies leverage their unique data/insights to produce high-quality content at scale to target long-tail searches. Optimizing for alternative search engines is a longer-term priority.
"On the daydream side, we've been less focused on optimizing for upstart search engines right now, mostly because we're focusing on the second trend that I mentioned, which is how do you actually absorb how you build a very good contextual understanding of what a company is doing and then produce really valuable content from that. And at the moment, Google still is the most valuable channel."

- Running a successful programmatic SEO program requires a cross-functional skillset spanning product thinking, marketing, SEO expertise and data - which is hard for most companies to assemble. Daydream helps bridge this gap.
"I think what I realized is a lot of heads of growth have a hard time assembling the right team to run the programmatic playbook, which is more complicated because it requires entry sources, product thinking, SEO expertise. There's a lot of distinct skills you have to combine to get it working."

3. TECHNOLOGY & PRODUCT DEVELOPMENTS
- Daydream can absorb any internal company data sources and external public web data (even if not in training data) to provide rich context for generating high-quality, unique SEO content. This solves a core challenge with purely AI-generated content lacking key context.
"Daydream currently is able to absorb any data source inside a company and any data source externally on the public web, even if the model's not trained on it. So between those two things, it actually solves one of the most foundational problems of creating great content using AI, which is context."

4. COMPETITIVE LANDSCAPE
[Discussion did not cover Daydream's specific competitive positioning]

5. TEAM & CULTURE SIGNALS  
- Senuka believes in taking a "calm" approach to running a startup - not getting overwhelmed by day-to-day ups and downs, but focusing on steadily solving problems. Learned principles of equanimity and non-attachment living in a Zen Buddhist temple.
"Buddhism a lot of it's about this idea that when you form attachment to things that creates like us like a it creates like suffering and so it's super easy if you're building a company to fuse your identity into it and then now you have an attachment and then once you have the attachment as the company goes up and down you go up and down and so what I found out with the Buddhist stuff is it's really about like letting that go."

- Wants to build a world-class, fast-growing venture-backed company without the typical startup founder lifestyle of being "super neurotic and like sleeping under my desk". Believes motivation from curiosity and meaning is more sustainable than fear and insecurity.   
"Can I build something that has like a world-class outcome but in a way that feels more aligned to my way of living because I don't think I can be like call it the more traditional archetype which is like super neurotic and like sleeping under my desk and all that stuff."

6. KEY METRICS & BUSINESS DETAILS
- Daydream has raised two venture rounds, one unannounced at the time of the interview.
"We various two rounds we have announced one but it'll probably be announced by the time this podcast comes out."

7. NOTABLE TECHNOLOGIES
- GPT-3.5 marked an inflection point in the ability to automate large parts of the programmatic SEO process in a way that was much harder previously. This was one of the catalysts for starting Daydream.
"Particularly around when GPD 3.5 came out, it really became clear to me that the technology was kind of in a place where you could now automate huge pieces of what was required to build programmatic SEO in a way that was much easier than in the previous generation."

8. COMPANIES MENTIONED
- Canva: Mentioned as an example of a company that has done programmatic SEO well. "You search like template for blank. Canva comes up."
- Zapier: Another example of successful programmatic SEO. "You just search like how to connect any two SaaS companies and you'll see Zapier come up."
- Airbnb: Mentioned as a company where SEO was treated as a product function rather than just marketing.
- Coinbase: Another example where SEO has been done by the product team.
- Notion: A Daydream customer. Their unique data asset for programmatic SEO is their library of templates.
- Product Hunt: Another Daydream customer with unique data on startups to power SEO content.

9. PEOPLE MENTIONED 
- David Lee Kim [Host]: Co-founder of Omniscient Digital
- Senuka Karunaratne [Guest]: Co-founder and CEO of Daydream. Previously founded Flix, was an EIR at Hustle Fund, and Chief of Staff at Pango.
- "the founder of San Francisco Zen Center": Mentioned as the originator of the "Zen Mind, Beginner's Mind" concept. Senuka lived at the Center he founded. 
- "one of the Zen priests": A former Citibank banker turned Zen priest who Senuka met and learned from at the SF Zen Center. "This monk had been a banker at Citibank and then had the priest had been a banker at Citibank and then had quit and then become a Zen priest and just had a lot of really interesting talks on like how Buddhist principles are applicable in everyday life."

# Transcript


Hey, what's up? You're listening to The Long Game, and I'm your host, David Lee Kim,
co-founder of Omniscient Digital. In this episode, we chat with Senuka Karunaratne.
Senuka is the co-founder and CEO of Daydream, a platform that helps companies
automate programmatic SEO from end-to-end. You can learn more about Daydream at
withdaydream.com. Prior to that, he ran Flix, a company that he boost draft and
used programmatic SEO to refer over a hundred thousand subscribers to companies
like Hulu, Disney, HBO Max, and more. He was also an entrepreneur residence at
Hustle Fund and Chief of Staff to the COO at Pango, a cyber security company with
over a hundred million in annual revenue. In this conversation, we talk about the
recent changes in SEO, AI, and its impact on our jobs and how we'll do SEO
moving forward. Senuka has a lot of interesting insights and perspective on
all the flux that's happening in the industry, and I think you're gonna learn
a ton. Here's my conversation with the Nuka.
Tenuka, welcome to the long game. Thanks, Dan. Thanks for having me. Let me just
start with the intro of you and then you fill in the gaps that you think I'm
out of your missing. So you're currently CEO of Daydream, which is a tool to help
people automate programmatic SEO from end-to-end, and then before that, you find
it Flix, which actually used programmatic SEO to drive subscribers to
businesses like Disney, HBO Max, Hulu, and then you're also an entrepreneur
resident at Household Fund, which we'll get to what exactly that means, but
curious if you fill any gaps or anything I'm missing there. For sure. So yeah, that's
a good encapsulation. The founder of Daydream, we're automating programmatic
SEO from end-to-end. It's a venture-back company. Prior to that, I started Flix,
which was a bootstrap company that was doing, essentially, Legion for streaming
companies using programmatic SEO. In parallel with that, I was also Chief of
Staff SEO at a later-stage cybersecurity company, and then before that, I was
working on building a bunch of affiliate blogs and things like that in high
school and through college, and that's how I learned a lot of what I know about
SEO, and then somewhere in there, I also became an EIR. We could talk about that as
well. So you kind of mentioned it really briefly here that you worked on a couple
things in high school, and as though that you founded a company, and like your last
year of high school called Ad Mark Technologies, and my understand is it, it
sounded like a bunch of affiliate blogs. Tell us about that. How did you end up
doing affiliate in high school? Yeah, so I think the initial interest was more
like, "How do I make money online?" So I played a lot of more RPGs, spent a lot
of time in those games, and I actually found it to be a pretty interesting
experience for learning about buying, selling, how virtual economies work, all
that kind of stuff, but over time, I got really interested in this idea of like,
"What if I can make real money online?" And the reason I had that thought was
because I had a brother at the time, well, I stopped a brother. So my brother at the
time was running a blog about programming, and he was making like a hundred bucks
or something a month off of Google AdSense, and I was really fascinated by
this idea that you can sit at your computer and make money online. And so I
got interested in that. I tried all kinds of things from when I was like 12 years
old, I can still even see some of my forums. I made these forums like clicking ads for a
tenth of a cent, or like filling out surveys. I did a bunch of stuff like that.
Eventually, the thing that really worked for me was the learning how to do SEO.
So I grew up in Canada, and at the time, Canada's Netflix catalog was much worse
than the American one. And so it was a pretty common thing to change the DNS
on your device to be like American DNS, and then get into the American Netflix.
This was before Netflix was super aggressive about cracking down VPNs and
things like that. But when I was searched for like, what are the best American or
most reliable American DNS servers, it was not clear. So what you have to do is
go to Reddit or YouTube comments of like different videos, and people would talk
about this stuff. Something that sucks. What if I just make a blog that I
personally test all the DNS servers, and just keep an update on a daily basis.
So I built that. I think I built it on like weebly or wicks or something like that.
And initially, it was really like, okay, this is something valuable.
I made a couple of YouTube videos about how to access American Netflix on
the YouTube, or sorry, not on YouTube, how to access American Netflix on like
PlayStation, on your iPhone, on different devices, and started getting some traffic.
I had like maybe a few hundred visitors a month, and I'm like, man, this sucks.
I put Google ads inside myself. I'm like, I'm making like 50 cents a month.
There's something this is useless. So I was about to sell the website
for like $200 on a forum, and then something started to happen.
So I guess probably because I was a kickstarted the growth of the website a
little bit using the YouTube referral traffic, I started to rank on Google for
like Netflix DNS codes. And at some point, it was even number one,
or number two for American Netflix period, which was like, just amazing.
And that website started to get like several hundred thousand visitors a month.
I'm like, wow, I got a lot of traffic now, but I still have no money.
Right. So this was like the SEO piece. Then the affiliate piece was, hey, actually,
a VPN is a much more reliable way to solve this problem, like you have to pay a little bit,
but it's always working versus these DNS codes that were located, who knows,
like DNS servers that were located, who knows where and run by who knows who,
that would stop working all the time. And then after I did that, that's when it started to work.
So that's when I was like, wow, this is my first real thing that worked that made money.
And that's how I learned like the fundamentals of SEO is like brute trial and error.
And that's how I also figured out affiliate as like the monetization mechanism on top of SEO
traffic. So that was like the basis for my knowledge of how I learned about all this stuff.
Yeah. And then I imagine you started finding ways to scale up, like the content production
for Flex, right? Because I actually just took a look and you cover all the various, I don't
know if you're still owning or running or anymore, but it seems like it was covering all the various
ways of asking how to watch X show or how to watch some channel or something.
And you definitely didn't write that all manually, I imagine.
Yeah. Yeah. So the programmatic piece really came in. So like, you know, I had my early start with
the Netflix DNS codes thing I mentioned, but the Flix piece really came through when
I started to, I was, I was looking around for new verticals to enter. I realized in the US
streaming was booming like crazy. And there was a lot of search volume for how to watch this or that.
And the question was like, I can't write my way to answering every question about how to
watch every piece of content. So how do you solve that problem? Well, you basically have to build a
dataset of where all the streaming content is, keep it up to date, and then automatically generate
a page for every question about how to watch something.
And that's actually the best way to answer that question. Because if a person is writing that,
they're not going to be able to react fast enough when it gets dropped or added to a different
streaming service. So yeah, Flix was basically founded on that premise. It's like, if I'm actually
going to do SEO really well, I need to automate it. And that became like a programmatic SEO play.
And we would drive the traffic to companies like Disney or Hulu, HBO. And when the subscriber
converted to a subscriber or either free or paid subscriber, we would get a commission.
So that entire business was really about driving like tens of thousands of people
to these streaming services. But they were all reached through programmatic SEO. So I spent a
couple of years just focused on programmatic SEO, because that was the only thing that would
work in our space. There's not like another alternative channel that we can diversify or
whatever it's like, either you do that well, or nothing. So that's how I became interested in the
space. Was there no like arbitrage opportunity? Because I'm assuming if you're pointing these
folks to, I don't know who or Netflix, I don't know what their LTV is. But if you could get a
click and convert them for a couple dollars and get like a kickback from them, like did the numbers
not work out that way? I think partly, I think there were some challenges there. Like one,
I think was I was just not as specialized into the paid side of things at that time.
There were companies that entered, but we had talked to a number of companies in the space and
it seemed like in general, like union economics were like pretty hard. And my thought was I could
spend time on that, or I could just really try and dominate SEO and organic. And I felt much,
I felt like my efforts would compound a lot more that way. So it's possible I could have worked out,
but we chose to focus really hard on SEO and organic.
How did building flicks end up kind of leading to you building
daydream and maybe can share with folks like what exactly you're building a daydream as well?
Yeah, for sure. So on the flicks side, when I was building flicks, which I still own,
I have another group that runs it now, so I can focus on daydream. But when I was running flicks,
I noticed a couple things. So one is I would have heads of growth or founders of other
companies, venture back companies come and ask me to do this for them. And I had no interest
because I was running my own company. But it was interesting. I'm like, wow, there seems to be a
lot of interest in this very niche thing I'm doing. Like, why is that? And over time, I realized it was
because a lot of these heads of growth were very familiar with programmatic SEO because Zapier
had done it to pretty high level. You just search like how to connect any two SaaS companies and
you'll see Zapier come up or Canva. You search like template for blank. Canva comes up.
So they were familiar with the playbook, but I think what I realized is a lot of heads of growth
have a hard time assembling the right team to run the programmatic playbook, which is more
complicated because it requires entry sources, product thinking, SEO expertise. There's a lot of
distinct skills you have to combine to get it working. That was one. So I noticed demand.
The second was when we built the programmatic SEO engine Netflix, a lot of the team was technical,
but we really had to put in a lot of work to get the whole thing working. And the process was
pretty painful. So when I saw particularly around when GPD 3.5 came out, it really became clear to me
that the technology was kind of in a place where you could now automate huge pieces
of what was required to build programmatic SEO in a way that was much easier than in the previous
generation. And I think the third thing is I just felt like my personal learning curve was
flattening on just running a lead gen company and I was ready for the next challenge. So all three
of those things together, there's demand. This is something I've specialized in for a long time.
The technology seems to be right. And personally, I'm ready. It just made me feel like this is
right now the right time to start daydream. Yeah, it sounds like at least on your end,
all the stars were aligning and it kind of, as they would have it land at a time when
there's also a lot of macro changes in SEO. And so we'll have to hear you speak to some of those
changes around Jackie, PTLMs, SG and all that and also why it's important that you're building
daydream now to maybe serve some of those things. Yeah, so at a high level, I think
the way companies will reach users through search is just changing on two very foundational
levels. So one is the place that people take their search queries to and the way that
those questions are served is changing a lot. So what does that mean? It means that
you know, for the first time in like 20 years, Google feels pretty threatened, it seems like.
So Google is taking its own spin on how to adapt to a lot of the generative AI developments by
launching SGE. And obviously that's been a very bumpy road for them, but they seem to be
finding a coherent direction now. But at the same time, now Google is being challenged by a bunch
of other alternative ways to serve these search queries, which I think first came through,
or the first big one was like, "Chatsy BT, obviously, but now you have perplexity,
you have enthropic, you have a lot of alternative ways to get your search queries served that are
not just getting 10 blue links." So what it means to optimize for search is changing quite a bit.
It's no longer that you just focus on Google, or at least, you know, Google still has such
crazy market share, but in five or 10 years, I don't think the reality is one where you just
optimize for Google, and then you forget about it, and you're just trying to get in 10 blue links.
There's a lot of other questions like how do you emerge, how do you appear in perplexity's results,
how do you appear in, you know, opening eyes search engine and thropics results.
What it means to optimize for search is going to change a lot. So that's one. The other piece that
is pretty important is the way that content is created to answer these questions that people have
is also changing. So the previous generation of programmatic SEO, you could create very
templated answers to very like templated questions, how to watch blank. Okay, here's how you watch
blank, and you can like literally template that and same with the Zapier's approach, right?
How do I connect SaaS-A and SaaS-B? It's super templated, but now with AI, you can create much
more like far more customized, flexible, and like in general, higher quality answers to a wider
and wider range of search queries that are not so rigid in their structure. So the combination of
okay, like all of search itself is fundamentally changing, and the way that the answers to search
are created by businesses and companies and individuals through content, that's changing too.
So if you look at those two changes that are like super foundational, and the fact that
this is all happening so quickly, it's like, wow, this is a really interesting
problem because no matter how you look at it or what changes, it's pretty clear that search
will remain like a massively valuable acquisition channel in the future. But there's a lot that's
you know, a lot of like bumps and things that are changing in the short term, like, oh, well,
you know, there's going to be more zero-click search results, what percentages will Google
take, what percentage will go to other companies. There's a lot of open questions, but I felt like
fundamentally, it's a really exciting area to build in because the requirements to deal with
the channel are changing so rapidly.
It sounds like everything you said ends up often getting wrapped up in this phrase,
like SEO is dead. And that just completely misses the mark on what is actually happening and just
fear-mongering. Maybe they have something to sell. But you mentioned, at least what I'm gathering
from you mentioned is like, search is going to stay around. It's just the way that search is
done, like how people are going to search, and it's kind of already starting to change, but
that's going to start accelerating. And even the way information is presented, you had mentioned
the question, like, how do you show up in these other search engines like
perplexity, chat, GPT anthropic? I know you don't have like the end, I'll be all truth to that
question, but I'm curious what hypotheses you might have for that.
Yeah, I think that to us right now is still a very open loop. And we want to start
working with some of the leaders in the space to start figuring out the answers to these questions.
But it's so early, like perplexity just announced, like, I think probably a few weeks ago that they're
going to do like advertising, and that's like a whole thing that's coming up. So they'll probably
start working with publishers more and things like that. And we want to, you know, we'll probably
want to talk to them a little bit more about that stuff as well. But I think as far as how you appear
in, you know, in more like chat-based experiences, what you can notice for chat GPT, for example,
is that a lot of what results they surface, like the sources they surface, are very similar to what
surfaces at the top of being. So right now it seems like there's a lot of overlap between
what is surfaced in these chatbots and what surfaced in search engines. But, you know,
chatbot optimization, if you could call it that, is a very like untested type of area. I think on the
daydream side, we've been less focused on optimizing for upstart search engines right now, mostly
because we're focusing on the second trend that I mentioned, which is how do you actually
absorb how you build a very good contextual understanding of what a company is doing and then
produce really valuable content from that. And at the moment, Google still is the most valuable
channel. And there's not much point right now we feel in trying to focus on like all the other
indexing layer competitors. But in terms of how we do, but that's definitely like a focus for the
medium to longer term, is how do you start thinking about those problems at least. But my sense is
right now for most companies, it's not going to be like the primary thing on their mind. Google
is still the major driver. But it's time to start thinking about that. So on the daydream side,
we need to do more work to actually think about how we're going to do that. But it's something that
we feel like is like very foundational to the future of search and we want to be on top of it.
It makes sense that you're kind of like it's too early to even be focusing on that first
wave of change. And the part that we probably have a lot more control of is around,
hey, how do we produce content that's a lot more shared programmatic, but tailored to each of these
different variations of searches. So talk more about that and how daydream helps folks with
creating that programmatic content. Yeah, so the idea that the basic view I have is if you look at
how much, like when we did our fundraising exercise, you usually look at like what's a top down estimate
of spending a particular acquisition channel. In our case search, that's like an SEO in content.
The estimate that we came up with, obviously these things can be like a little bit fuzzy,
but there's around like a hundred billion in spend on SEO and content combined per year.
And so you think, where is that money actually going? Well, that money is not going to like software,
it's going to services. So it's going to writers, agencies, consultants that are helping to
orchestrate this whole SEO motion. But what are those people doing, right? And you can break it
into a few buckets. So they're helping you identify what search patterns to go after,
then they're creating content to go after those search patterns, then they're monitoring the
performance and they're iterating. Those are the four primary pieces of SEO. So on the daydream side,
what we're really focused on right now is there's a lot of search queries that you actually can
generate a really strong AI generated answer for. But the level of detail you need and the level
focus you need to create something that's like in the 90th percentile of quality. So not just like
some average, okay, AI answer, but something really good is fairly high. And why is that?
It's because to create like a really good piece of content, chat TPT, for example, if you just use
it, it doesn't have any context on what your company does. It's also, it has to like cut off
for the training date. So it's like a lot of chat TPT or AI generated content right now is
almost like telling someone, hey, here's no context on my company. And you also can't look at anything
that has come out on the internet in like last year or whatever it is and then go write something.
So of course, it's not going to be great. But our view is if you can build a platform that's
very strong and absorbing all of the interesting data points that are going to be valuable to
from a reader's perspective. And you can pair that with a lot of other optimizations around tone,
styling, and especially like scaling out answers of a particular query. That's like something that's
valuable today because if they don't use Daydream, there's a limited number of options, be it like
finding a person to write these things, which at a certain scale doesn't make sense. Or you hire an
agency or someone like that, but that can often be like pretty expensive. So Daydream, Daydream sits
in this place of, hey, if you have, if you're in an industry where there's a lot of search
in the long tail, and you don't know how to target it, but you have your position in a way
where you have unique data or something that's valuable to the readers, you can use Daydream
to help you get the value of that by taking those data points and then building like very
thoughtful content campaigns at scale around them. So that's basically what we do.
And so is it like rather than just a single input that like you would with Chachi P2 of like,
here's a prompt, it sounds like it's taking information from your entire company website,
maybe proprietary database or something that you have and information about your product and
to invoice and all that. And all of those are taking it into consideration with producing the
content. Yeah, so if you think about where like in general, when we think about SEO, what you think,
what you can relatively, you can pretty safely assume is that what the internet will value in
the long term. And this includes like the indexing layer of players like Google and Chachi P2 is like
net new insights contributed to the internet. So if you're going to contribute net new insights
to the internet, where does that come from? Well, a lot of it, a lot of that will be stored inside
the company. So if the company has data points on, so I can give you like a few examples. So
notion, for example, obviously has a lot of interesting data about templates in one of our
customers. Product Hunt has interesting data on like startups. These are valuable data sets that
they built themselves. And those are, those are like a perfect kind of in the perfect place to,
if you can access them and then inform great content by using those data points, that's,
that's interesting. So that's internal context. Then there's external context. So for example,
there's a lot of government databases that have information about particular things,
but they're formatted terribly. So there's actually a lot of, a lot of alpha in being able to look at
those databases, pull the data from them, but then summarize them in a way that's easy to understand.
So that's like an external data source. So Daydream currently is able to absorb any data source inside
a company and any data source externally on the public web, even if the model's not trained on it.
So between those two things, it actually solves one of the most foundational problems of creating
great content using AI, which is context. But if you can build integrations that take internal
context and any external context, now there's not really anything that's off limits in terms of
from a pure context standpoint. And that's like the seed of creating unique differentiated content,
which is what matters long term for SEO. Yeah, I'd love to get more into weeds on that point,
because I know, like, I've spoken to someone and they've referred to programmatic SEO as say,
something like Zillow, where you have a database of all these homes and your prices and locations
and all that. And I think that's very simple where that information just gets reflected on
their website with like tokens and placeholders and all that. But from what you're saying, it sounds
like it might be something different where those are inputs that inform what type of content is
generated. So I don't know if you can use a specific example of maybe the type of data or
something that notion or product is using, and then how that informs the content, like, what's the
actual output for them? And maybe it's about like scaling one of the existing things. So it's not
like, I don't know, something confidential. Yeah, so I'd say probably a good example to give is just
a good example would be for notion, you know, notions, unique data is like it's templates. So
the question is, how do you make the most of that? Well, one important thing is there's a lot of,
you know, people might search something like best habit tracker template or best personal
planner template. So the exercise of taking all of these templates that, you know, notion has built
out and then creating thoughtful listicles that are categorized appropriately and things,
like that's, that's an example of a use case. That's, that's like notions data advantage for a
company like can, but it's there, they have a very similar thing. They have like their templates for
Zapier, their data source is all these like integrations that they built. So in each case,
what you see is a company that's actually built some type of data edge by in the way that they
built the product. And then our job is to basically take that data edge and parlay it into like a
growth marketing SEO edge. So that's kind of the idea. It's interesting what I think you described
here earlier, where the type of person who would want to run these types of plays would have some
product thinking would have some marketing background would know SEO and like maybe have some data
background as well to be able to build out a programmatic SEO program. And I'm thinking about
like, even in that question itself of, how do we use data to inform building out this like program?
I don't think the average person would be able to understand that. So it's, it's interesting. I'm
wondering how you start getting more folks building using daydream to build out these programs,
like, is like an education layer of like, Hey, this is how it works.
I think that's the hardest part right now is you look at, like a lot of times a company will come
to us and be like, we want to do SEO, but it literally stops there. So I think a lot of even,
even like growth marketing leaders, their knowledge goes as far as we know SEO is a big channel,
we know some examples of companies that have pulled it off really well. But then from there,
like, what is the strategy? What search patterns should I go after? This is the, it really stops
there. So with daydream, like in the first phase is literally we do a strategy audit.
So that's like, okay, give us context on your company, who the ICP is. And from there, we'll
basically create a, you know, from that point, we'll basically create a strategy of here are the
different search patterns that matter in your industry. Here is the intent. Here's the size
of that opportunity. And then we say, Hey, then, you know, given that these are the searches that
matter, and these are the interesting data points you have, this is what we would create to serve
those searches. And then it kind of ties it together. But you think like, even for the average,
like growth marketer, they are not as deep enough in the channel, usually to figure this out
themselves. So there is an education component. This is, I think something that we're super keen
to get better at with daydream and really take a leading role in is educating the industry about
how to do this. Because even when we get questions like, where would you go to learn programmatic SEO,
we don't really have a go to resource that will point people to. So part of what we would like to
do is really make a lot of the education public over time, so that when companies come to us,
it could be that, you know, they come to us after they've read a bunch of interesting things about
a bunch of our guides on programmatic SEO, etc. have seen some of our case studies. Like,
we also publish deep dives into the programmatic SEO strategies of companies like Monday,
G2, Canva, there's a whole bunch on our website. So yeah, there is a very happy education component
right now. And I think it's partly because, especially with the way AI has changed things,
the industry is just not that up to speed, but that's our job to educate them.
We've had a couple clients ask to do programmatic SEO. And once we ask what they think that means,
it just completely falls apart. And then there's an education aspect and we're like,
it doesn't even make sense for you. But I had to explain what exactly it was first before they
understood, oh, that doesn't make sense for us. So it's kind of a weird thing where with AI and
the automations available and the ease of producing content now, I think folks started asking for
that without truly knowing what they're asking for or whether it makes sense. But I think you'd
mentioned previously that the goal is to automate a lot of these different things.
And I think it begs the question of what does this mean for how we do SEO moving forward?
Yeah, I think what it means is that SEO, I previously said four things, but it's actually
four things plus one. So SEO right now is identify the keywords, search patterns,
create the content, monitor the performance and iterate. I think those four pieces will be
automated to a large degree or there will be enough, like there will be enough automation that the
average growth person with reasonably smart can go and actually like do a lot of these things that
previously required some of those super technical. So we're trying to build a bunch of layers of
abstraction on top of this whole like SEO strategy execution piece that will make it much easier
for people that are not specialized to understand how to drive the playbook. So then that begs the
question that you're talking about, which is then then what happens in this industry? Well, I think
the plus one piece I was mentioning is strategy. So the understanding of here's our product,
here's the unique data points we have. And based on this and how our competitors moving,
how the industry is changing, this is, you know, this is some of the, this is the rough direction
we'd like to go in for SEO. So this whole strategy piece of having context on the company,
the product, the data, and using that to inform strategy, that I think becomes really valuable.
But then a lot of the tactical pieces, like keyword research, writing content, generating
reports, like this stuff is very primed for automation. So I think what you see over time is,
I think this is happening in SEO, but actually across all the channels, it's like AI enables
you to get a lot of leverage and build some good layers of abstraction such that you don't need to
be so technical in each channel. And it empowers the average growth person to have a lot more leverage
in executing across the channel, even if they don't have specialized knowledge. Then what becomes
really important over time is like things that have always been valuable. Like, is it like,
what is this person's like product sense? How good are they at understanding the product and the data
that the company has and parlaying that into a growth strategy? So I think technical, tactical
stuff becomes less valuable because it gets automated more. And I think strategy and the ability to
drive those initiatives becomes more valuable. So that's for SEO, but it's also generalizable
to, I think, go to market and the way it's changing in general.
Yeah, what does that look like to spend more time on strategy? Because even the concept itself,
I know from speaking to a lot of folks, it's very nebulous. So maybe if we just use SEO as the
example, like the specific thing here, knowing that all marketing is kind of the roles are
getting impacted with automation and all that. But if we look at SEO, what does it mean to
focus on strategy? I think it means being very product-led. So a lot of SEO thinking, like,
in the industry right now, it's still very short-term focus. It's still tied to this older idea of
doing SEO well is hacking and, I don't know, doing whatever to basically just get to the top.
And that leads to a lot of short-term thinking. So I published a blog post about why
backlinks should basically be just a result of having good product market fit and you shouldn't
spend time building backlinks. So just think about that, right? A whole part of the SEO industry
right now is focused on building backlinks in a way that's sometimes outright black hat,
which is like paying for links or data journalism, which we actually did a little bit of
Netflix, which is much better because you're actually creating some kind of like unique
research and you're disseminating it. But it's still like you're separating link building into like
a distinct practice that you're spending money on. That's not very product-led thinking. That's
like more short-term tactical thinking. And I don't think it actually works out well in the long term.
The reason for that is you could look at companies like, you know, look at tome,
tome generate a presentations company. There are domain authorities like
Quite High and it's not like they spent a bunch of time trying to figure out how to build links.
They just had a good product and they got a lot of attention and then they got links mostly because
like backlinks are a proxy indicator of value created on the internet. So the companies that do
the best at that just focus on building something that creates a lot of value and then they accumulate
links as a result. But companies that are more short-term focused instead of focusing on the
bigger thing, which is creating value and getting links as a byproduct, they just focus on
shortcutting to getting links in general. And like that's not a good practice, right? Or just
being focused on like, here are the keywords. And let's just do that. And let's just write a
bunch of like articles and let's not think about, you know, how we can create a unique and
differentiated answer based on the pros that are or like the unique inventors our product has.
That's like non-product-led SEO thinking. But product-led thinking is more like, okay, you're
Zillow and you happen to have all this data on like real estate stuff. Well, actually that
enables you to create really good answers to a lot of questions about how to, you know,
what houses to buy and etc. So I think like the ability to have good fundamentals on like product
and growth will become very important over time because that strategy piece and figuring that out
is the most important thing. And then all the tactical details of how you actually create the
pages, how you monitor performance on them. Like that stuff is more tactical and is right for automation.
So yeah, it's it's almost like all the things that most people think of when they think of SEO
is all tactical stuff. And it's the strategy that the thinking behind it that doesn't get much
attention because I know it's not as actionable. So people don't write about it. But I wrote a
newsletter about like the SEO is a product manager. And I got some good feedback on it. But I think
that that's going to be a direction. I mean, you're kind of validating it right now. So I'm feeling
good about myself. But I think the SEO is going to turn, it's going to be, I wouldn't be surprised if
like they were viewed less as a marketer and more of a product manager to figure out like,
okay, how does this thing that just like be a marketing channel? But how do we like utilize
more of our product and our data to, to inform our marketing, essentially, or even drive it?
Yeah, I mean, I think some of some companies have already started making the switch from making
SEO marketing role to a product role, like Coinbase, SEO, a lot of SEO, there's done on the product
team. Airbnb is a good example too. Like SEO was a core part. It was like a product function,
much less a marketing one. So I think it reflects a shift that's still not really like it. There's
not that many companies that have really come to accept that fully. But I think you'll see more of
that over time. So we've spent a lot of time talking about SEO. I'd like to kind of switch gears
and talk about building a company. You mentioned in passing this idea of taking a calm approach
to building a company. What do you mean by that? Because you have investors and I'm not sure how
calm that can get. Yeah, it's a good question. So I think the root of that, I think I use that
word less now because the whole calm thing is associated with like a trade off on scale or speed.
It's like it almost implies like you're going to do it slower when people say that.
But my thought was just like it doesn't like panicking and being like super stressed and stuff.
I don't know that it actually has ever like bad stress essentially. It doesn't really help like
get the job done. So let's say something goes wrong in the company. If I'm spending my time
like ruminating on it and being like really panicked and upset and essentially I'm going up and down
in the same way the company's going up and down. It doesn't really like help you solve the problem
in front of you. So I think it's good to have a certain level of separation between yourself
and the company so that even as the company is going up and down you can like be more stable.
And I found that that's what I need to just focus on solving the problem. So
I guess it sounds maybe like a different way of doing things but to me it's like it just seems
like I don't see any benefit in like getting really caught up in my own like whatever. I should
just go fix the problem. And so I guess the reason maybe that that's come up a few times in like
when I've talked to different people or they've met me is there's an idea in startups like
things are always on fire. It's so hard. You know like there's all these like narratives around
that that like basically validate that it's like very normal to just be like super stressed out and
this and that and whatever. And there's some element of like yeah you start a new company it's
just in general a more volatile thing like a more volatile I guess business because it's like
super early on there's a lot more risks that are unchecked and things like that. But I think
there can be some danger in like just validating yourself that things are supposed to be chaotic
all the time because maybe they're actually don't like maybe that's maybe you're succeeding in spite
of that not because of that. So I think my philosophy has just been make sure that even as
the company's going up and down I can just have some level of stability which means I need to be
grounded myself. And I think that really affects also the way the people around you work. So it's
like no matter what challenge comes up okay it came up let's like not get let's not spend too much
energy worrying about let's just figure out what the solution is and just keep moving get past
this one go to the next one get past move and then go to the next one and that's I think that you
build a great company is like you don't spend too much time worrying about these things you just go
and solve it. But obviously it's easier said than done. And so I don't have like a super concrete
philosophy on like exactly what that company means but I think for me personally it just means
I don't go up and down with my company I just focus on getting the job done and that requires
that I like reject some of these narratives of like oh of course it's supposed to be chaotic
in this and that there's always going to be some element of that but I don't need to indulge that
and then like create more problems for myself which I think is a very common thing in like the
founder community.
We're kindred spirits in that respect where like I'm building a an agency which I've
someone has actually told me told me like oh you must be a masochist because agencies are so
hard and like are they really I mean there are literally millions of agencies the Blue Prince
been built out like it's not sure it's difficult but it doesn't have to be like that crazier like
as bad as people say it is. So I love that you question kind of those narratives and internally
we also I mean some people call it stoic I know you lived in a Zen Buddhist temple for like almost
three years so if anything I'd say it's described as more like Buddhist you're kind of disconnecting
from that and very you're very zen about things where issues come up.
Yeah I mean I think a lot of this also just depends so when I was running the bootstrap company
people I had a similar way of looking at operating and things like that and the initial question was
like oh well can you do that because you're bootstrapped and then I thought to myself oh this is going
to be interesting because maybe when it's venture backed this whole dynamic changes actually it doesn't
because I realized like a lot of the environment of a startup or how it feels
has mostly to do with like the psychology of the person so if the person in general in their
life is like super reactive and neurotic and anxious and like worrying about things all the
time then of course the company is going to turn out that way but if the person is not like that
then it's just going to be more like chill not in a non-ambitious way but just like it's not going to be
as chaotic for unnecessary reasons but yeah I did learn a bunch of that in the Zen Buddhist
temple we can talk about that too if that's interesting too as well. Yeah how did you end up
living in a Zen Buddhist temple for almost two years what prompted that? Yeah so I think the back
story was basically you know I'm Sri Lankan so Sri Lanka is like a majority Buddhist country
I grew up in Canada I used to go to Buddhist school but at the time the type of Buddhism I was learning
I wasn't super interested in because there's a lot of like history and ethics and things and then
you think like well what does this have to do with my life but I got back into it in college
like we had a campus meditation club and I thought oh this is just very practical you go there you
sit for an hour and then you just feel like more relaxed when you come out so when I went to San
Francisco I was looking for a place to just sit mini meditate and I went to the San Francisco Zen
Center which is one of the largest Zen Buddhist temples in America if anyone's heard of the book
Zen Mind Beginners Mind or this quote like in the mind of the beginner there are many possibilities
in the mind of the expert there are a few that's attributed to the founder of San Francisco Zen
Center and that temple in Hayes Valley is actually called Beginners Mind Temple so I went there mostly
just to have a place to go meditate on the weekends but I ended up meeting one of the Zen priests so
in the Zen tradition they're called priests not monks which is a whole other thing I didn't know
that okay yeah yeah changed I think as it came through India and then to China and in Japan but
this monk had been a banker at Citibank and then had the priest had been a banker at Citibank and
then had quit and then become a Zen priest and just had a lot of really interesting talks on like
how Buddhist principles are applicable in everyday life for like the average person that's working
a job in tech or finance or whatever it might be and that was super refreshing to me so it's like
this is not like some theoretical super abstract like academic subject this is actually something
that's much more applicable in my day-to-day life and what I noticed in startups in particular is
startups are really good at like creating all kinds of problems and dilemmas especially as they
relate to other people and if I'm like reacting to every single thing and like getting in my own head
about it then it's really hard because I'm like being carried by the momentum of my problems and
if you choose to do a startup there's the momentum of problems it's just like very just like keeps
going so I realized I think again in a nutshell that the thing that's interesting about the whole
Buddhist thing is that it gives you a bit more react like space between when something happens
and when you react to it and that was super useful so it's not like immediately like the
thing happens and then I'm suddenly like just being taken on for a ride there's like a bit more
space I think is like there's a whole like thing we could get into there about exactly like what
changes and all this but I would sum it up as like you just have more space and I think that's
been really helpful to just be aware of like what are my thought patterns what are the things that
hold me more or what are the things that pull me less and I think probably the biggest thing is
not fusing my identity into the company so like Buddhism a lot of it's about this idea that when
you form attachment to things that creates like us like a it creates like suffering and so it's
super easy if you're building a company to fuse your identity into it and then now you have an
attachment and then once you have the attachment as the company goes up and down you go up and down
and so what I found out with the Buddhist stuff is it's really about like letting that go
I am separate from the company and having like a sense of very just like this like a sense that
like what I'm not holding on to the company so tightly and I'm not absorbing it into my personal
identity it's easier to look at it as something I work on rather than when something's wrong with
the company I'm like it almost feels like something's wrong with me and I need to go fix it and like
there's this whole thing right but I think for a lot of founders you like fuse your identity in
the company because you think it's so important but that paradoxically makes it harder for you to
deal with the ups and downs because you're going up and down with the company and I know there's a
whole like different there's a spectrum of different views on this like obviously there are people
that have fused right entities into their company to the max and they still and they do really well
and there's plenty of those examples I just don't know that that's the only way to do it so that's
kind of like my meta experiment with building the company is like can I build something that has
like a world-class outcome but in a way that feels more aligned to my way of living because I don't
think I can be like call it the more traditional archetype which is like super neurotic and like
sleeping under my desk and all that stuff yeah yeah it reminds me a lot of the the base camp
guys like that I just actually got their book like it doesn't have to be crazy at work and it
what's really cool is hearing you approaching building the company like this from the beginning
versus I think for a lot of other people you hear them being a lot more zen after they
tie their identity for like 10 years plus of their business might can now step back
it's like oh yeah sure you can say that now but you're actually doing that from the beginning so
that that's really cool to hear the only other thing I would add is like even with base camp
like base camp I think was correct my wrong any of these subjects too but I think there were more
okay with building like a stable steadily growing company but not necessarily something that's
meant to go like fully then down the mentor track I actually do want to do that so then the
the question is like there's not that many examples of people that embrace this lifestyle but then
also did not compromise on like call it more of the traditional markers of success for the company
be it's scale growth rate size like all that kind of stuff but for me I actually do want to see like
with the track that the company's on so we we various two rounds we have announced one but
it'll probably be announced by the time this podcast comes out can you build a mentor back
company that grows quickly on like like a mentor track and still live life in this way
that's the experiment and I didn't find many examples of people that did that so that's part
of also what made it intriguing for me to personally go pursue that myself yes really cool we now
have you on record so in five to seven years we can look back and go like see see what's changed
if anything hopefully nothing well I know we're coming up on time I'd love to ask you a couple
closing questions and we can wrap it up yeah let's do it all right what is one opinion you have
about business you think people would disagree with I think it really would relate to what we just
talk about which is I don't know that being super fear driven is actually the best way to get things
done I think if you're motivated by curiosity and less of like the chip on your shoulder
that's a stronger and more sustainable way to stay motivated and achieve results with less like
collateral damage than being super driven by like your own fear and security or chip on your shoulder
whatever yeah I feel like more people should hear that all right what is and maybe this is
related but what's one impactful piece of advice you've been given my trainer says this so he's like
you know your mind and your body are the only things you have with you until you're
completely you know off the face of the earth but they're also the things we prioritized last so
that's been a reminder to me to just make sure I take care of those things because when I start
taking care of those things then everything around me starts to kind of like get shaky too
yeah I find out for myself too all right what's one book you'd recommend what people read
this might be a little bit random but I wrote a book called out of the goby the full title is
out of the goby my story of China and America it's basically about someone who was exiled
into the goby desert in the cultural revolution when they were a kid oh was denied an education
eventually went to school became in the first batch of students to come to America for school
did a PhD under dinner yellow eventually anyhow this guy basically went from like where he was
and I think now he runs like the largest PE fund in Asia or something but it's just a crazy story
of resilience so it was a great great move I'm getting chills um so I'm getting chills because
so my girlfriend's Chinese I read the three body problem trilogy like like a year or two ago and
they've referenced a lot of the cultural revolution I would like turn or ask all these questions
for some reason think you should know but she actually shared that like she knows she's heard
stories from like her grandparents about like their experience through all that stuff so and
we just had this conversation literally like two days ago and so it's very timely to kind of hear
you recommend this book I'm gonna look into that thank you for that yeah no problem all right and
then last question here is where can people find you on your net so I'm on twitter denuka underscore
k uh on sorry x on x on the x platform uh also on linkedin linkedin slash in slash denuka
and you can also reach me at denuka at with daydream.com so any of those sweet rules add links to all
those in the show notes and it was a pleasure to have you on a show thanks for making the time
awesome thanks man
so
you


