1. EPISODE CONTEXT

- Podcast Name: Unclear from transcript, seems to be an interview format
- Hosts: Jack (full name/details unclear)
- Guest: Adam (CEO of Owner.com) 
- Featured Company: Owner.com - Software company serving small business restaurant owners. Was at seed-stage when Jack invested, now has hundreds of employees and tens of millions in revenue.

2. KEY INSIGHTS

- Being a young, inexperienced founder was initially a major disadvantage, but it forced Owner to prioritize inbound marketing and content to earn customer trust organically.

"These disadvantages ended up flipping into being massive advantages, both in the way that they changed our strategy and the way that they pushed me as a founder and CEO to grow myself."

- Adam views hiring and recruiting as the single most important part of his role, spending 30% of his time on it. He persistently pursues top talent for years if needed.

"The only way to get the very best people who have literally dozens of offers competing for them is to continuously persist until the timing is right and the circumstances are right."

- Adam filters intensely for work ethic, drive and "owner's mentality" in hiring, asking probing questions to gauge if candidates truly think and operate like owners.

"If you were the CEO of your past company, what would you have done differently? If that's the first time that that question has even crossed their mind, and they look like a deer in the headlights...that to me is not an indicator that they were thinking as an owner."

- He views his role like an Olympic athlete, controlling every input and factor to optimize his performance, from diet and exercise to learning and growth.

"I've accepted the responsibility that I've got to compete like an Olympian taking every input into my life seriously, not just hoping to show up with the right level of energy or clarity of mind."

3. COMPETITIVE LANDSCAPE

- Owner positions itself by enabling small businesses to own their customer relationships and online presence, contrasting with companies like delivery apps that separate businesses from customers.

"This idea that we could have a name that was associated with the proudest word in our market customers' vocabulary and build a business around it felt like it would be worth any price."

- It distinguishes itself from competitors by building an inbound sales model driven by high-quality content marketing that earns customer trust.

"I realized that anybody could be an expert on the internet as long as they created content that was good enough."

4. TEAM & CULTURE SIGNALS

- Adam lives and breathes an extremely intense work ethic and ownership mentality that he role models for his team.

"I'm very proud of the fact that I am working seven days a week, often in 18 hour days...people notice that when they send me a slack at 10pm, I'm very quickly responsive."

- He filters intensely for matching passion, energy and drive in hiring, quickly terminating processes where candidates display lack of alignment.

"When he said 'counting down the hours till the weekend' about you, I knew within 15 seconds that while he might be an extremely skilled and experienced marketer, that we weren't going to work well together."

5. KEY METRICS & BUSINESS DETAILS 

- Owner has grown to hundreds of employees and tens of millions in revenue (specific figures not provided)

- Adam aims to send investors extremely detailed monthly updates, having never missed one in over 5 years

"I'm very proud that we've never missed an investor update since the first dollar we raised and it's been more than five years of not only never missing but always being exactly on time."

6. NOTABLE TECHNOLOGIES

- Owner utilizes inbound marketing and content creation as a key customer acquisition strategy
- Relies on tools like LinkedIn Recruiter to systematically identify and pursue top talent 

7. COMPANIES MENTIONED

Shopify: 
"An example of this would be Kyle, who initially was not looking for a new role. He was crushing it at Shopify."

HubSpot:
"In our case, it was Shopify and HubSpot, because those companies have each very successfully and very efficiently distributed software to small business owners."

8. PEOPLE MENTIONED  

Neil Patel [Entrepreneur/Marketing Expert]:
"I had looked up to this marketer. Neil Patel, who I had learned a lot of marketing stuff from, and so I told myself, I could be the Neil Patel of the restaurant space."

Vinod Khosla [Venture Capitalist]:
"I heard the node Khosla talking about how he views recruiting...and so I thought to myself, if Vinod is doing that at the scale that he's operating with...I better be doing that as well."

Paul Graham [Co-Founder of Y Combinator]:
"YC and Paul Graham talked a lot about how important it was to exercise actually and I was just like I was kind of like a funny thing and then but then when I was in YC..."

Alex Wang [Co-Founder of Scale AI]:
"There's some founders that are extremely brilliant one in a million level brilliant like Alex Wang from Scale...breathtakingly smart and that is not me."

Kyle [CRO at Owner]: 
"An example of this would be Kyle, who initially was not looking for a new role. He was crushing it at Shopify. He was the revenue leader there..."

Dean [Adam's Co-Founder]:
"So I called up my co-founder Dean and I'm like you would not believe the the past two minutes of what just happened..."

Jason Lemkin [Investor/SaaS Expert]:
"They were writing all of these crazy nasty messages...and then tweeting my investors one of them wrote Jason Lemkin this very long email..."

# Named Entities

## PERSON
- ##od
- Adam
- Alex
- Alex Wang
- Coastla
- Dean
- Jack
- Jason Lemkin
- Kyle
- Michael Phelps
- Neil Patel
- Paul Graham
- Peter Teal
- Vin

## ORGANIZATION
- ##I
- Coastla Ventures
- HubSpot
- LinkedIn
- Minecraft
- North Star
- Oscar
- POS
- SE
- Shopify
- Teal
- Teal Fellowship
- Twitter
- VC
- X
- YC

## LOCATION
- Pacific
- Reddit
- Silicon Valley

## PRODUCT

## EVENT

## WORK_OF_ART

## DATE

## MONEY

## QUANTITY



# Transcript


All right, I'm super excited to be here with Adam, the CEO of owner.
Thanks for doing that.
I'm really excited to have this conversation today.
Thanks, Jack.
I'm stoked.
All right.
So what I want to start with is you as a young founder, you dropped out of not college, but
high school, when you were not even 18, you started owner, you're 25 now.
And that's like still pretty young.
All things.
You know, like I started last when I was 26 and I felt like I was, I was like a pretty
young founder and you know, you're younger than I was when I started and you've already
got hundreds of employees and, you know, seven years of experience and tens of millions of
revenue and all those other stuff.
So that's like amazing.
I also know you've like, you know, chewed a lot of glass and done a lot of hard stuff
to get where you are and to make that happen.
And there's like a ton of backstory to what you've been through.
So I guess I wanted to open with just, you know, Silicon Valley talks a ton about young
founders and it's like this sort of both glamorized and sort of complicated topic, but I'm sitting
with one, I'm sitting with a really good one and I just want to be inside your brain
a little bit.
Like, tell me about the experience of it.
Initially being a young founder is a huge disadvantage, particularly the type of young
founder that I was because I was a 10th grade high school dropout that had no credentials
to my name, no professional network to draw on, no fancy college with a great computer
science program to recruit classmates in order to build stuff.
And the worst disadvantage of all was that I have a baby face.
So when I was 17, starting owner, I looked like I was 12.
And after grinding for weeks to get single demos, appointments scheduled, I would walk
into the restaurant to demo their software after emailing and texting and calling incessantly
to try and initially grab their attention.
And then they would look at me as I was telling them about SEO and I looked like I was 12
and they wouldn't take anything that I said seriously.
They'd ask me things like, where'd you go to college?
And then I have to explain, I didn't go to college.
Why not?
Because I dropped out of high school halfway through 10th grade to build a Minecraft server.
It led to all this friction where restaurant owners weren't willing to really even listen
to what I had to say.
Then this was like, for context, four years before I got any credentials to my name, four
years later, I ended up getting the Teal Fellowship.
But for four years of building owner, young founder, no network, high school dropout and
just grinding to make things work.
So what's interesting is that these disadvantages ended up flipping into being massive advantages,
both in the way that they changed our strategy and the way that they pushed me as a founder
and CEO to grow myself.
I got sick and tired of having to grind so hard for trying to distribute our product
outbound and sort of asking myself, how do I get them to come to me after having benefited
from something that I've put out there in a way that actually makes them excited to chat
with me?
And this is what led to from the very earliest days focusing entirely on inbound.
I realized that anybody could be an expert on the internet as long as they created content
that was good enough.
So one of the things that I did in that first year was I started writing a blog on restaurant
marketing that had these very comprehensive articles because I had looked up to this
marketer.
Neil Patel, who I had learned a lot of marketing stuff from, and so I told myself, I could
be the Neil Patel of the restaurant space.
Maybe people will benefit from the content and then want to use our product, which for
the first few months didn't work because content takes a while, but eventually I ended
up writing some of the most popular restaurant marketing articles of 2018 and 2019, at which
point restaurant owners started reaching out and saying, I saw that article you posted.
That was so helpful.
I ended up doing the first strategy you mentioned in my restaurant and grew myself.
I'd love to chat with you about how your product might be able to help grow our sales
even more.
And then I would show up either for the Zoom call or for the in-person meeting and they
would see that I was 18 years old at that point or 19 years old and be blown away.
And that's what ended up leading to us defying this trend in our space of selling via outbound
because we had to build via inbound on that necessity alone.
I was the first sales rep in the company and the person that needed to do all the demos
and nobody was taking me seriously when I was going to them.
But when they started coming to me, it flipped the dynamic entirely and that ended up being
a super power as a young founder, both in driving our strategy as a company, as well
as in feeling extra energized by the fact that I had to work even harder.
I mean, the beginning of most startups are very hard.
I think it's actually it's really uncommon that you just start and it goes really well.
So going back to those early years, you're 17, 18, 19, 20, you're young, it took a while
for you to find the right kind of product market fit.
It's a hard market.
You have these customers telling you you're a middle school in turn, like fundraising's
hard.
Like, what was your mindset in those years?
What was keeping you holding through that early part of the curve that was so flat and
so difficult?
Like, how did you mentally hang through that when you were young?
You didn't have a big network in Silicon Valley.
You didn't have a bunch of money from investors.
You didn't have customer.
Like, what was going on for you?
It was mostly desperation and some inspiration.
The inspiration had come from the experience that I had in building the first version of
what would become owner for my mom's dog ring business and seeing it completely transform
her life as her business took off.
Seeing that this skill set that I've learned in the gaming world to grow my Minecraft servers
and mobile games had made her business take off and seeing not only the financial impact
that that had on her, but more importantly, personally, seeing my mom go from constantly
stressed out about money and terrified about potentially losing her business or losing
our house, which she had taken out loans against to start the business, to then reaching this
place of such momentum in her life that she was feeling excited again about her future
and proud of what she built.
And that felt so much better to me than what I'd spent the past few years doing in the
gaming world that I knew that that was the business that I needed to build a life around
that I needed to figure out a way to scale this to help as many people like my mom as
possible.
I didn't yet know how hard it would be, but in order to get in to scaling what would
become owner, I basically sold my Minecraft servers and the mobile games that I built
in order to focus there.
And by the time I'd sold them, I needed to make this work as my way of supporting myself
and making this massive bet that I'd taken on myself of dropping out of high school in
10th grade, having faith that I would figure it out worthwhile.
I actually just remembered the fact that you were so connected to this idea of owners,
and that was so deep for you.
And I just remembered that you spent a crazy amount of money on that domain and that that
was like one of many non-obvious calls you made.
I mean, I can't remember exactly what the deal was, you know, and when it happened,
but you spent a lot on owner.com, if I remember, it's a pretty good domain name.
Yes, a jaw-dropping amount that I'm not allowed to specify because there's a non-disclosure
agreement in place with the seller, but an amount that was super controversial at the
time to spend a huge amount of money.
But you were pretty sure you were like, this is the North Star.
This is a big deal.
I was absolutely certain this focus on the small local business owner and in getting
to know a lot of them, realizing that the most important word in their vocabulary in
a lot of cases is the word owner, because 70% of restaurant owners started off in entry-level
positions as buses or line cooks or servers.
And then over the course of years or in some cases, decades, they worked their way up into
finally being this term that they're so proud to identify with, an owner, but they're increasingly
feeling like they're losing control and ownership of their business as it's shifting online
and so many companies are swooping in and separating them from their customers and then
charging them these massive fees, whether it's the delivery apps or the reservations
platforms.
So this idea that we could have a name that was associated with the proudest word in our
market, customers vocabulary and build a business around it felt like it would be worth any
price.
That was the calculus on that specific name, as well as knowing that there's a massive
halo effect and perceived authority when a company has a sexy domain name and that
in selling the small business owners, trust is scarce.
Yeah.
It is not products that are scarce.
It is not new technology that they could test out.
Those things are very abundant, overly so, but trust is scarce.
And so if you are able to get that intuitive trust with a small business owner through
showing them that you've got a really strong brand and a really strong domain name, what
we found is that overnight, the conversion rate on our website increased by more than
50%, 50% just with that change, our reply rate from candidates tripled.
We saw all sorts of other massive benefits through having an ultra premium domain.
The confidence to make the type of bet that you did when you didn't have a lot of money
in the bank that could have only come, those insights could have only come from you really
spending a humongous amount of time with your customers.
It's knowing their vocabulary inside and out, it's knowing that trust is what they operate
based on and how that trust shows up.
So you really could have only been that sure by being with your customers constantly, which
you still do.
Even when I walked in here today, a customer was walking out.
Yes.
Out of my apartment.
Yes.
Which is the great apartment.
But a customer was walking out as I walked in and it's like, you're still doing that.
And I'm sure you're always going to be doing that.
On this topic of, you know, you're a young founder and you were an even younger founder
when you started, how did you think about getting yourself up to speed and learning the
things that you need to learn?
And on the other side, knowing when to trust your own gut and you've made that domain is
one I just remembered, but you've made a lot of non-obvious calls on important topics
and you've been right a lot about them, but you've chosen, I think what's most interesting
to me is that you've chosen moments to say, you know, I trust a lot of the people around
me.
I'm going to listen to what they say and I'm going against the grain in a big way here.
And I'm curious about how you've chosen when are you in, learn, listen and sort of follow
advice mode and when are you in?
I'm going to make a call that is very controversial and I'm just going to have my sort of faith
to do that.
The key here is that I'm always in the second mode of I will make whatever decision is in
the long-term best interest in our business, but sometimes that decision is going to be
one that a lot of people disagree with me on, which in those cases, I've got to make sure
that I'm operating with as much context and understanding of why people disagree so that
sharpens my thinking and can make me decide ultimately whether I have enough conviction
to press on regardless of what really smart people are advising me against doing or whether
they might have a point and I've got to adjust my perspective.
But it comes from a place of not feeling personally attached to the stance that I might initially
perceive as the right answer to a specific problem.
And instead only starting to feel extreme attachment to a stance when I know that I've
done the work and considered all of the different perspectives that one might take in solving
this problem and that this is the best path, even if people disagree with it.
So how do you decide when to learn from others, which I think is what I would characterize
as your default is to sort of be learning from the world?
And then when do you choose to go internal and pick your spots where you're going to
make a not obvious call and you're going to just hold your convictions, this is hard
to do in the face of an exec team that maybe doesn't see it the way you see it or investors
or peer founders, when do you decide this is my moment that I'm just going to do what
feels right to me internally?
I always do what feels right to me internally.
But before deciding what feels right to me internally, it's really important that I carefully
consider any perspectives on the topic before I arrive at my own conclusion that I can.
Yeah.
It's a good frame source from.
So basically, it's like, even if what you concluded happens to agree with the people
around you, which it often does, if it happened not to, you've gotten to a point where you
don't care anymore, you would do it regardless.
The thing that I look for before making big decisions is high internal conviction.
And importantly, I don't have high internal conviction on the majority of big decisions,
the moment that I consider them.
I don't make snap judgments or intuition calls if it's the first time that I'm thinking
about the problem.
When I encounter a new problem that I haven't encountered before or haven't thought deeply
about, my process is first very clearly defining what the problem is that I'm trying to solve.
I write down pages and pages describing my various thoughts around the problem, the potential
solutions and don't judge or filter myself when I'm doing this journaling to get as much
clarity as I can on what the simplest way to define the problem is.
Then I start doing the same as I'm basically trying to get all of the potential solutions
on paper, not evaluating them, not assigning them any value against one another, but just
thinking about what are the conceivable ways to solve the problem, and then depending on
the amount of conviction that I feel on those potential solutions, if it's not super high,
then I seek out other perspectives or seek out different books that I specifically approach
with the goal of solving this problem to give me as much potential data as I possibly can
have before making the decision, also acknowledging that there's so many decisions and startups
that you will never have enough data to make a "perfect decision" on where you have 100%
certainty that it's going to work, but that when you can get to that place of extremely
high conviction, more often than not, it ends up being right.
It's such a good instinct, I think, because it's so tempting for all people, but it can
be really tempting for people in leadership positions to feel the need to always have
an opinion quickly, and you're faced with a problem and you want to have all the answers
and you want to turn that into a declaration fast, and I think most people shouldn't have
an opinion about most things very quickly.
I think in a lot of cases it's actually okay for a CEO to just not even weigh in on a lot
of stuff, certainly not to have to do it quickly, and I think that you can run into traps when
you get into a headspace where you think you need to answer stuff fast and where you need
to make decisions fast, I think that can be a pitfall for people.
I disagree with that framing, actually, there are certain parts of that that I kind of
agree with, but what I would nuance is that fast decisions are extremely important in
startups.
Indecision as a CEO has cost a lot of momentum over the past six or seven years in any time
that I've let it fester, so the interesting balance here is achieving both fast decision
and having a considered rapid process, so what I do when I encounter one of these important
new decisions that I don't have a lot of conviction on is I basically clear six to eight hours
to go through as many resources as I can, talk to people that I can, write out all of
my thoughts, and then try and clarify from those written thoughts whether there is a
direction that I have conviction in and if not, I continue searching in order to drive
that decision.
How do you decide which decisions are worthy of clearing your day?
Is it like a one way door, two way door type thing, or is it just you can tell an important
decision when you can see it?
How do you decide which are the ones where it's like, you know, I'm going to be quick
and I'm going to be right 70% of the time here.
And these are the ones that I'm going to give, you know, I'm going to give eight hours of
real work too, because I need to be like right when I say it.
It's intuition based on identifying what the most important things for us to absolutely
nail as a business are.
There's things there on product, on go to market, on overall financing and structure
of our company, management of leaders that are super high stakes, high leverage decisions
that I need precision on in making those decisions, or at least as much conviction as I can quickly
muster.
But one of the things that I'm subconsciously considering there is whether it's a one way
door or two way door in order to be able to assign the relative importance of that decision
relative to the other things in my calendar.
The workout that get owner has always been pretty outlier, it feels like to me.
Years two.
I mean, I guess that's where it stems from.
But it feels to me like the whole company has always had that pretty deep in the DNA.
Like you seem to work pretty much all the time.
Is that been something that's been hard to manage through or is, how do you hold on to
that?
You know, even if the company's been growing, how have you evolved on that?
Because obviously, you know, as the company grows, you're hiring people who, you know,
have worked at bigger companies.
Maybe people have kids.
Maybe people who are, it's just not realistic for them to work seven days a week.
Like, what's the, what's the journey that owners currently on knowing that these roots
were, you know, so all in to now you're partway through the journey, you're a couple hundred
employees.
Like, what's that management been like?
There's been two keys to keeping the intensity and work ethic, even as we've scaled.
The first piece is leading by example.
So I'm very proud of the fact that I am working seven days a week, often in 18 hour days like
today, and that I'm not bragging about it openly to the team.
But people noticed that when they send me a slack at 10 p.m., I'm very quickly responsive,
just like I am at five a.m.
Pacific time, or that I am able to get a lot done in every week that I have because I think
ultimately it's got to start from the top.
And if I'm not willing to show up with an extreme level of dedication, then I can't expect
other people to, which I tried to live by example, but I'm not calling out to our broader
team constantly about it.
The second piece is that an interesting byproduct of filtering for these traits in people, like
being autodidactic in your learning people that end up reading lots of books and listening
to lots of podcasts, or people that take an extreme ownership mentality, which my favorite
question for is if you were the CEO of your past company, what would you have done differently?
If that's the first time that that question has even crossed their mind, and they look
like a deer in the headlights about like having no thoughts or just surface level thoughts,
that to me is not an indicator that they were thinking as an owner in that role.
That's such a good question because the quality of answer you could get there could be so
high.
Yes.
Yes.
And it is so high when people truly operate with that mentality.
The best answer in my mind is a very clear assessment of here are the biggest problems
to solve.
And here were solutions that were being overlooked, but that I have high conviction would have
made a massive difference to our trajectory as a company and were our biggest opportunity
for improvement.
Okay.
So that's like one great example.
Like what are some other questions that you found have been like high impact for you?
One of the interesting high signal questions that I ask is what resources have been most
formative to who you are as a person, but what I'm looking for there is not a specific
resource for them to name, but the habit of going to external resources and learning from
other people's experiences, having the curiosity to stand on the shoulders of giants and not
approach every single problem, that's something we've got to learn from experience, but instead
seeking out other perspectives, whether via books or podcasts or mentors that they recruit
to show that they're going to scale well with the company through the effort that they put
in to their continued learning and growth.
So it's less about like what the thing is, and it's more like how much have they thought
about it, how deep have they gone with sort of their own reflection, how it connects
to themselves.
It doesn't really matter what it is.
It's about like how they talk about it.
My hot take here is that trying to go through life purely learning from your own experience
is hard mode.
Of course, you've got to learn from your experience, but there's this great quote that summarizes
my belief, which is that a wise person learns from their own mistakes, but a wiser person
learns from the mistakes of others as well.
That quote is so powerful to me because we've got two choices on how to learn about scaling
in our role as a startup CEO or whatever role that I'm recruiting for.
I can either make the choice to purely learn from trial and error, in which case it's
going to take me years or decades to get to certain conclusions because I won't have
encountered them before or the rights that have data to deepen my understanding.
Or I can seek out people that have very successfully done similar things and try and distill their
years or decades of learning into a few hours of studying how they made decisions, how they
operated in the early days, how they think about that specific area of expertise, and
the second route is so much more efficient, and to me has been personally transformative,
so I look for other people that have activated that same superpower of their lives in learning
voraciously from others.
You also have talked about sticking with candidates who say no to you for months or quarters
or even years in a couple of cases.
Yeah, we just had an engineer that started two days ago that I recruited for four years.
Crazy.
Oscar.
What happened?
Let's just go for four years.
The way this all started was one of our first engineers, who is amazing, had previously
worked with this candidate and described him to me when we first started working together
as one of the very best engineers in tech, which from this engineer that tends to be
very skeptical in nature, particularly of others engineering abilities, because he's
very good.
Like mental health.
Extremely high praise.
This person doesn't think very highly of most other engineers.
And the fact that they were describing this person with such high praise is what perked
my ears up.
The problem was this person had recently joined a very hot company that was getting a lot
of financing from top firms and was being promoted constantly in this company to eventually
lead a portion of the product as like a product leader, engineer hybrid.
And so there was a lot going against us over the past four years, given that this was a
larger company growing super fast, great investors.
Even though it was a clear no for three years and nine months, at which point it turned
into a maybe, I knew how monumental getting an engineer like that on the team was.
And I also knew that it is not his responsibility to feel excitement for the opportunity of
building an owner.
It is my responsibility to convey all of the reasons to be excited and to persist knowing
that long term, this would be in his best interest to join us and build together because he's
so strong.
And then basically being willing to shamelessly, even when I felt embarrassment of like the
amount of times I had texted and emailed and met with.
I was just going to ask how many mess, how many unrequited messages were there over the
past four years, I would say over 20.
Wow.
It wasn't like 20 back to back to back.
Yeah, I'm sure you replied.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
It was off like on a friendly friendship level in initially connecting after this engineer
spoke so highly and immediately we attempted to recruit him.
It wasn't working because there were other forces at play, but it was basically not giving
up.
And interestingly, that is one of over 10 people in the company that are in extremely
impactful roles now that I've persisted with for over a year before they joined us.
Do you have other people that you're currently persisting with on like a multi your time
frame like this that hopefully one day you'll get, you know, whether it's in six months
or 20 months?
Yes, even if it takes years, I keep this running list of people that I must work with
throughout life, where when I get an extremely strong impression of somebody as a individual
that they're just a force of nature in their role, I add them to this list of those people
and then I follow up with them every quarter to catch up to share the latest to learn
more about them to develop the relationship so that when the stars do align, we are best
positioned to work together because in startups, the team we build is the company we build.
It is the single most important thing that I do as a CEO is building the team and obsessing
over talent quality.
But the only way to get the very best people who have literally dozens of offers competing
for them is to continuously persist until the timing is right and the circumstances are
right.
What's the like net of all of this in terms of like hours per week, let's say that you
spend recruiting?
I do time on it's every week and 30% of my time is spent in recruiting.
That is the goal that I target against.
Sometimes it's more, sometimes a bit less, but I really hold myself accountable to 30%
of my time.
And that's researching references, interviews, all the rest of it.
Yeah, one of the really inspiring things that I heard it on this front was I heard the node
Coastla talking about how he views recruiting, even as the founder and managing partner of
Coastla Ventures and a multi billionaire and how he still views it as so important that
on weekends he'll spend time scouring LinkedIn and reaching out to candidates for his portfolio
companies in order to help place them in those companies.
And so I thought to myself, if Vinod is doing that at the scale that he's operating with
with billions of dollars in net worth to help portfolio companies, I better be doing that
as well.
So I don't feel above source in candidates.
I don't feel above taking introductory or screening meetings, even though we've got hundreds
of headcount now, team is everything.
And when I find really special people or hear about really special people, I view it as
my responsibility to figure out how we might be able to work together and persist if that's
required.
It's a small price to pay relative to the impact that they can have in the business.
I've also heard you reference from Vinod, the like gene pool engineering of the team
thing.
Can you share a little bit about that?
Yeah.
This was one of the game changing moments as a founder when I started viewing recruiting
through this lens early on.
Gene pool engineering of a team is what Vinod calls building your team around the biggest
risks in your business, being able to reach multi billion dollar scale and global impact.
So here's the process.
You start by identifying what those risks are.
For example, one of our risks in serving small business restaurant owners is making
the go to market motion extremely cost effective and efficient.
So then after identifying what the risk is of this type of business, you move on to what
are the centers of excellence, which he defined as companies that have successfully solved
against that risk in the past and built best in class systems for solving that problem.
In our case, it was Shopify and HubSpot, because those companies have each very successfully
and very efficiently distributed software to small business owners, defying the typical
acquisition economics breakdown that happens when pursuing small business owners.
Then step three is going on LinkedIn recruiter search and figuring out who specifically was
most responsible for the de-risking of those motions and who would know it inside and out.
It's typically not whoever was the chief revenue officer at that period, although they might
have some insights.
It's often a director of theirs or one of their specific team members that was able
to solve the problem that is now ready for a VP or C suite level role.
And owner, an example of this would be Kyle, who initially was not looking for a new role.
He was crushing it at Shopify.
He was the revenue leader there that was scaling up their brand new POS line of business.
And after hearing amazing things about him from a bunch of his colleagues and various
advisors of ours and initially connecting in an advisory capacity over the course of
six months, no became maybe and maybe became yes, which then was a massive unlock for our
business.
As you know, because he's been such an effective revenue leader and draws on years of experience
in a super relevant network in de-risking distributing effectively to small business owners.
That's another good topic, so Kyle, the CRO, was I think at the time he joined.
Some people would have said he's more experienced, he's a stage ahead.
And I think you've often done that where you've hired what looks like a stage ahead
on paper of people who have these bigger experiences, bigger companies leading bigger teams and
you bring them into owner.
And in your interview process, you're figuring out, can I make that person successful in my
environment, but I want that person with that experience.
Talk about the way you think about hiring ahead with your exec team.
I think that's something that is noteworthy to me for owner.
Hiring big company executives that have only done big company work is always an unmitigated
disaster.
But hiring people that are big company executives that have previously had experience doing stuff
at this stage can be a superpower because they've seen both sides.
They've seen what best in class looks like at scale eventually and they've seen what
specific actions, systems, strategies were really successful at this stage to create
those success stories.
Talk to me about the investor updates because they are like works of art, like what's going
on with those investor updates.
I'm very proud that we've never missed an investor update since the first dollar we raised
and it's been more than five years of not only never missing but always being exactly
on time.
What it comes from is feeling extremely grateful to our investors because for the first two
and a half years of building owner, I didn't think I'd be able to raise venture capital.
I didn't think I'd be good enough to raise money and I didn't know anybody that had.
The fact that people have that millions of dollars that they're responsible for on our
success is touching to me.
Even still, I can almost feel emotional thinking about it because at some level they're sticking
some part of their career and their success on believing in me and believing in the company.
I feel that I owe it to them to give them as much transparency and insight into how we're
operating, not only to make sure that they feel continuously confident in and a prize
of the decisions we're making, but also because ultimately I want these relationships to last
for life for many decades and I want to invest in them every single month in a way that
I would feel confident that we'll still be friends in 20 or 40 or 50 years time because
of how much effort and value I put into the relationship.
It comes mostly from a place of gratitude and also knowing that the tech world is small
and that reputation in the tech world is everything.
My belief from the beginning is that I've got to treat the people that bet on me like gold
because in the case that I was never able to raise another outside dollar again, I want
to treat them so well that they would feel really excited and confident about continuing
to bet on me because of the way that I lead.
It's a really nice way to live and I actually think one of the interesting things without
sort of no judgment about it but I think as Silicon Valley has gotten more professionalized
let's say and has it become just much more understood how startups are built and there's
tons of venture capital, there's tons of startups, I think not that the VC found relationships
are negative but I think they are often transactional and I don't think they have to be and so
it's a nice perspective to treat those relationships, treat the money that gets exchanged as part
of a much broader relationship not just like a deal that happened.
100% agree with you and I think that it is really important in long-term optimizing for
the company's success to never treat relationships as transactional to be extremely proactive in
nurturing and treating the relationship like gold because ultimately reputation is everything
not just in fundraising but recruiting in customer acquisition, we think that that is
always the most important long-term thing to optimize for which sounds generic in theory
to say but the way we act in that concept is with all our investor relationships and making sure
that I am doing everything in my power to give them as much information and clarity as possible
on how the company is doing on where they can help and one of the magical things that happens
when you do that is you get more help and we've been so blessed from our very first seed round
where it's been the same group of investors that then doubled down and tripled down and quadrupled
down in our company and I'm so grateful to them and to you for believing in me.
It feels like the least I can do to make sure that those updates are great and on time for you
and give you clarity on what we're doing because you've done a ton for me.
It's funny you say that because it was I think all of your investors probably feel like we were
the lucky ones and you were an easy person to bet on the whole way through but it's still
very nice of you to say but I do also think that one of the things that's happened because
of the way you've treated investors is I've observed you getting a lot more help from your
investors than a lot of people do because that relationship is so not transactional
and so you have a lot of you know besides the institutions you also have a lot of great
angels and I see a lot of people who really want you to win and I think a lot of that has to do
with the way you've treated people the whole time. I appreciate you saying that.
One of the things that you mentioned is that you know quickly you know about candidates
and so this is going to be like a funny change in tone. There was a time that you
interviewed a candidate a few years ago and you quickly realized that they weren't for you
and you shared about that story on Twitter. It's funny because for me now looking back on it
I'm like that should have been one of the first moments that I saw
like real greatness in you as a CEO. It might have been I don't even remember if that was one of
the moments but thinking back on that I'm like what an obviously good CEO that is so
can you share what happened there what you did and then I'll have a couple other questions about it.
Yeah this was an interview that I was really excited for one of the marketing leaders at Shopify
that had done a lot of relevant stuff agreed to meet when I reached out on email and LinkedIn
and so I'd done a ton of prep work learning about this person's background and the relevant
things that they'd done then we'd head into the meeting and the question that I opened with to
get the conversation flowing was hey how's it going and they in the most drained and jaded
possible way looked into my eyes and said I'm counting down the hours till the weekend.
How about you just like that just like almost deadpan monotone and one of the more controversial
things that I look for in people for our team is bringing great energy we call it people that are
super energized and optimistic by default so when he said counting down the hours till the weekend
about you I knew within 15 seconds that while he might be an extremely skilled and experienced
marketer that we weren't going to work well together and so I thought out of respect for his time
and my time I'm just going to say very kindly I appreciate you finding the time this morning
just to let you know I don't think this is going to be a perfect fit and I don't want to take up
any of your time in this conversation because my belief is that startups are too hard to be
counting down the hours till the weekend like I believe in working weekends at this stage and
bringing in tons of great energy so I really appreciate it and for great things about you and
you're going to be super successful in whatever you do I'm sure but
it's just not going to be the perfect fitted owner so it was a minute it was like a one-minute
conversation it was less than a minute and he was very angry and I was I was very surprised by how
angry he was and so I called up my co-founder Dean and I'm like you would not believe the the
past two minutes of what just happened I got on with this candidate I was very excited and
he said that at the beginning of the conversation I just knew that it wasn't going to be a great fit
for owner and Dean found it really funny that like good for you you know what we we want and
need in people and I think it's actually kind long term to not waste 30 minutes or an hour of
this person's time if you know it's not going to be a great fit so then I went into our morning
leadership meeting but right before I did I thought this is a potentially good thing to share
about our culture that like we're looking for people that are really energized and excited
about their work and excited to potentially work weekends I thought that that was
like an important thing to be transparent about so I tweeted out exactly what happened
those exact words and went into this leadership meeting turned my phone off and for 90 minutes
we went through every part of the business our metrics how things were progressing and wasn't
really paying attention and then after I ended the leadership meeting right before I hop into
another meeting I check my phone and you were getting canceled and I'm not exaggerating
the tweet had more than a hundred thousand organic impressions and I have like a thousand followers
in an hour it had gone so hyperbolicly viral of people getting really offended and angry with me
saying this is disgusting are you running a sweatshop are people not allowed to count
down the hours till the weekend what year was this again remind me 20 this is 2021 2020
2022 okay and I was so taken aback to how angry people were by this it really escalated when
apparently there's a community on Reddit called the anti-work community I didn't know about them
before this but we got posted to the anti-work community subreddit which has a lot of active
people apparently and they were just railing on me in this thread all these crazy conspiracy theories
about how of course Peter Teal is associated with this person because I got a Teal Fellowship and
this is disgusting this is everything that's wrong with Silicon Valley in one tweet and not only were
they like angry on Reddit but they were writing all of these crazy nasty messages to the initial
message and then tweeting my investors one of them wrote Jason Lemkin this very long email about
how dare you back this founder this is the most disgusting behavior how could he treat people this
way and it was interesting to me that it evoked such an angry reaction I meant it as a very light
tweet and then I actually ended the tweet with thoughts because I was curious to get other
perspectives this is one of the reasons why I don't really post that much on X anymore I'm not
curious and hearing like the broader internet's thoughts because I think there's a lot of really
toxic mindsets that are brought in at least from my perspective although from their perspective
apparently I'm toxic and it both led to the importance of like in my mind not outsourcing
any thinking or opinions from like the broader internet community and the clarity that it was
actually the right decision to respectfully end the interview in that way and have stuck to
my intuition on whether somebody's a great fit but the wrong decision to publicly share it.
Yep yeah so if you were facing that situation again today you'd still in the interview but
you'd keep it to yourself definitely I would end the interview and I would share it with our team
transparently and anybody that was curious is that like a secret would you go out of your
way to share with your team just to like reinforce anything about the values or the hiring practices
or that wouldn't be important I would go out of my way to share it with the team for exactly
that reason reinforcing this idea that our values aren't just corporate BS like we hire about against
them yes they are non-negotiables in the people that we bring on and so if somebody very early on
is showing us that they are not going to be aligned with the type of company that we want to build
why would we spend 30 minutes of their time and 30 minutes of hours evaluating them all these
different dimensions if it's truly a non-negotiable. One of the things I always tried to think about
with like that made it easier was just people who loved their work who you don't who then are just
driven on their own to want to work because they love it like if you don't experience your work as
work which I think a lot of people don't I think that you know that puts you in a position where
you can work all the time and it doesn't it doesn't feel bad it's what you want to be doing yes I
agree with that to some degree and I would delineate between different roles and the necessity of that
yeah are we asking our customer support reps to work a hundred hours a week absolutely not
nor that an expectation or even a major positive because there are certain roles that lend themselves
to having other priorities in life and are able to have much more of a balance which we are
encouraging of we expect excellence of those people in different ways but we're not expecting
them to dedicate their entire existence to the company in certain other roles like really key
leadership roles it's important to me that our leaders operate with a huge amount of intensity
and lead by example in the way that I do because I view them not as my employees but as my partners
in developing the business that's how I treat them that's how we talk about the business together
I'm not treating them as employees and I expect them to show up in a way that indicates to me
their level of commitment and intensity and focus on our business it really varies I love that at
this stage but at the seed stage when every single hire was life or death critical which is how
we viewed it we were more intense about enforcing extreme work ethic on those roles because
ultimately the first customer support rep is kind of like your head of customer support that's
developing all of the systems and they're almost like an executive in and of themselves one of the
things I didn't appreciate the wisdom of until later is YC and Paul Graham talked a lot about how
important it was to exercise actually and I was just like I was kind of like a funny thing and then
but then when I was in YC and I you know you start you know work you start to come you just start
working constantly and I quickly realized how important your own physical health mental health
are to being able to do the work but I actually think it's like deep wisdom that like you know
we're we're working in our bodies keeping your body strong and healthy is is a big deal
you have what I would describe as like outrageously outlier personal discipline on a bunch of fronts
like a couple examples or like I remember you once told me that you don't drink caffeine
specifically because you didn't want to have like the crashes which you thought would make you like
net less productive and then at some point you change that and you started using caffeine but
you cycled it and it was like using caffeine not like drinking coffee because you feel like it
you know you've also you know the way that you think about your sleep your calendar audits the
food you eat the exercise you do you like I don't know if you're still meditating twice a day but
you were at one point but it's pretty like it's pretty dialed so like have you always been
that way is this all for the purpose of owner if you weren't building owner would you be super
disciplined even if you were hanging out on the beach which is hard to imagine you doing but like
what's what's the story with all this discipline there's a few different parts to this that have
actually evolved over time it started from a place of insecurity and acceptance realizing early on
in getting to know some really intimidatingly great founders that I was not going to be able to
win on intelligence there's some founders that are extremely brilliant one in a million level
brilliant like Alex Wang from scale I put in this category breathtakingly smart and that is not me
I am smart enough to be effective but I've got to work that much harder versus those founders
that are extremely smart I will not be outworked startups are the Olympics of business and as the
founder and CEO of a startup I've accepted the responsibility that I've got to compete like an
Olympian taking every input into my life seriously not just hoping to show up with the right level
of energy or the right level of clarity of mind but also controlling all of the parts of my life
like Michael Phelps does when he's going for a gold medal with his exercise routine and his diet
and the various other contributing factors that are going to affect the way that I am able to show
up in work I've never heard somebody describe it that way of like treating it you know like you
know the Olympics of business or whatever but like that's actually a very inspiring way to put it
did you develop this mindset over some period of time or were you wired this way before owner or
like how did you come to that because you're not just I know you well enough you're not just saying
that like you live this like kind of every minute to like an extreme degree like how did you get
I mean you know you shared this realization or this sort of opinion that you're like you know and
you're being a little humble you're a very smart guy but you know obviously you know there's bell
curves on things and Alex Wang's really smart and whatever but how did you come to this it started
from a place of insecurity even before I met really special founders personally and
being really worried that all the people that told me that I was ruining my life that I was
making a very stupid decision that I wasn't going to amount to anything when I dropped out of high
school it's almost like because you suck you put so much on the line by dropping out of high school
that adds even extra pressure to not leave anything up to chance yeah I was worried they'd be right
if I didn't do everything in my power from that point forward to give myself the best possible
opportunity to succeed that's also when I started reading super voraciously I actually didn't read
in school I was conditioned to view reading the way school teaches us to which is
trying to memorize all these random wrote facts from the outsiders that we passed the English test
and reading being just a means to an end of proving that you're compliant with the teacher
but when I dropped out of high school I was so worried that I was going to fall behind
everybody in my peer group that the people that went to fancy colleges would learn all of these
amazing things about business and then crush me I promised myself that from that point
forward I would do everything in my power everything in my power to scale as a person and as a leader
because another belief that powers this is accepting that I am not the CEO yet that I need to be
for the next stage of scale that there's a ton of work that I've got to do to figure out how to
operate this business when it's got a hundred million dollars in annual revenue or a billion
dollars in annual revenue and I don't have all the answers now nor am I the most brilliant
founder that can just coast on intelligence alone which I'm not saying that that is the case
with Alex or anybody else they also work super hard which is just super inspiring to me and
pushes me to work that much harder but I will not be outworked and I will not let myself down
or any of the people that bet on me down in the way that I execute against all the factors
that are in my control. That was a powerful note to end on Adam this has been really fun to do this
with you and more importantly it's just a it is a real pleasure to get to work with you every day
so thank you for everything. I just wanted to say that I feel extremely grateful that you
bet on me when you did you believed in me when I was still a shit show in many ways and the company
was still a shit show in many ways back when we were a seed stage company and believed in me
before I fully believed in myself and that was life-changing because it gave me a ton of courage
and encouragement to continue executing to the best of my ability and changed my life to be able to
learn from you and have the confidence that somebody as impressive and awesome as you
believed in me too. Well it's very nice for you to say I think I learn more from you than you do
for me and it was easiest better my life but but thank you and thanks again.

