EPISODE CONTEXT:

- Podcast name: Unclear from transcript, but seems to be Jack Dorsey's podcast
- Episode focus: Discussion around various topics like social media, information warfare, tech startups, venture capital, and identifying outlier founders
- Hosts: Jack Dorsey (Co-founder & Ex-CEO of Twitter)
- Guests: Sean Byrnes (Investor at Sequoia Capital) 
- Featured company: Sequoia Capital (Top venture capital firm)

KEY INSIGHTS:

1. The first 2 weeks are critical in information warfare, capturing 90% of attention initially. The next 6 weeks see an 80% drop off as only those with vested interests remain engaged.
- "In part, and I'll get to death in one second, but just one basic philosophy I have with information warfare is basically the first two weeks are by far the most important."

2. Major media outlets like Fox News and CNN have "defected" from objective journalism over the last few decades, driven by conflicting incentives and nation-state manipulation. 
- "I think we're at basically a low point in the truth in our lifetimes and hopefully we come out the other side in a stronger place."

3. Nation-states are heavily involved in misinformation campaigns targeting various topics/regions to suit their interests, making verification of information sources crucial.
- "Not enough people really understand is just how much nation-state involvement and like intelligence operations are involved in the misinformation on all sides, including the U.S."

4. The next 25 years could see a "golden era" for hardware companies leading major technological advancements unlike the software-driven last 25 years.
- "I think we're entering like another golden era where that's going to be like a very money-making opportunity."

5. Identifying truly outlier founders who can build breakthrough companies requires nuanced evaluation of relevant skills/intellect akin to grandmaster chess ratings.
- "One of the things that I contributed that I'll share here is one way that I think about outlier founders is I think about the chess rating scale."

TEAM & CULTURE SIGNALS:

- At Sequoia, there is an obsessive culture around precise language and carefully documenting lessons learned over 50 years when describing founders and company-building.

- Sequoia does not "invest" in companies, but rather "partners" with founders, avoiding individualistic language like "I" in favor of "we" to signal their team approach.

KEY METRICS & BUSINESS DETAILS: 

- No specific metrics shared, but general commentary on the relatively consistent number of major exits (unicorns/decacorns) formed each year, suggesting limits on outlier opportunities and founders.

COMPANIES MENTIONED:

Sequoia Capital: "I have learned an unbelievable amount being at Sequoia...the place, there's 50 years of institutionalized knowledge and an obsessive culture around documenting lessons."

Apple: "Name any hardware company, go on their website, they'll probably have dozens if not hundreds of products. Go look at, you know, Broadcom, Qualcomm, Cisco, Danohair, Tesla, NVIDIA."

NVIDIA: "Literally in my manifesto, I had like two stocks. One was NVIDIA, one was Tesla."

Tesla: "If he didn't push Tesla, who knows where EVs would be?"

SpaceX: "If Elon didn't push SpaceX, who knows where humanity would be with space today?"

Uber, DoorDash: "You can't have Uber and DoorDash if you don't have the iPhone."

Genentech: Mentioned how Kleiner Perkins incubated Genentech by convincing Stanford professors to commercialize their research.

Anduril: Mentioned as an example of a hardware company with government relationships.

OpenAI: Mentioned as an example of a hardware company with government relationships. 

Stripe: Discussed how Stripe evolved from the founders' earlier efforts at a company like Octomatic which seemed like a "widget" initially.

PEOPLE MENTIONED:

Sean Byrnes (Investor at Sequoia Capital): The guest being interviewed, sharing his perspectives.

Jack Dorsey (Co-founder & Ex-CEO of Twitter): The host, asking questions and sharing his own views.

Steve Jobs (Co-founder of Apple): "If Steve Jobs didn't push Apple, like who knows where personal computing would have been?"

Elon Musk (CEO of Tesla/SpaceX): "If Elon didn't push SpaceX, who knows where humanity would be with space today?"

Mike Piazza (Former MLB Player): Mentioned an anecdote about impersonating Mike Piazza online as a child to understand information spread.

Patrick and John Collison (Founders of Stripe): "John and Patrick, they're such curious people...I can imagine sitting in an Octomatic pitch from them."

Terry Tao (Renowned Mathematician): Mentioned as an example of the highest echelon of mathematicians. 

Andrew Wiles (Mathematician): Mentioned for solving Fermat's Last Theorem after years of work.

Gregory Perelman (Mathematician): Mentioned for solving the Poincaré conjecture while living in Russian forests.

Yuval Peres (MIT Professor): An example of someone mentoring the next generation after doing great work young.

John Preskill (Caltech Professor): Sean's PhD advisor, who advocated switching fields every 10 years.

The overall transcript provides a wide-ranging discussion around information warfare, media dynamics, technological frontiers, venture capital, and how to identify exceptionally talented founders and researchers across domains. The speaker Sean Byrnes shares his experiences and philosophies from working at Sequoia Capital.

# Named Entities

## PERSON
- ##H
- ##cha
- ##fe
- ##fe Zhao
- ##isco
- ##m Elkis
- ##sla
- ##uloff
- ##uo
- ##y
- ##z
- ##zi
- Am
- Andreess
- Andreessen
- Andrew Wiles
- Aristotle
- Blake Bye
- Brian Armstrong
- Brooke Byers
- C
- Charlie Hebdo
- Danoh
- David
- Don Valentine
- Doug Alfred
- E
- Edison
- Gregory Perlman
- Hardy
- Hunter Biden
- Il
- Jack
- James Demore
- Jim Gatz
- John
- John Preskill
- Klein
- Leibni
- Magnus
- Mark
- Max
- Max Otis
- Mike
- Mike Got
- Mike Moritz
- Mike Piazza
- Mike Ritz
- Newton
- Nick Paltchikoff
- No
- Oct
- Patrick
- Putnam
- R
- Ramanu
- S
- Se
- Sean
- Sisko
- Stephen Hawking
- Steve
- Steve Jobs
- Strip
- Te
- Terry Tao
- Trey Stevens
- Trump
- Wagner
- Wright
- Yu

## ORGANIZATION
- ##DIA
- ##OL
- ##REL
- ##ia
- ##isco
- ##pp
- ##q
- ##ualcomm
- A
- AOL
- Al Jazeera
- Al Jazeera Russia
- American Dynamism Fund
- Andoril
- Annual
- Apple
- BBC
- Broadcom
- C
- CIA
- CNN
- CS
- CapEx
- Cisco
- Coinbase
- Dodgers
- DoorD
- Elon
- Facebook
- Fox News
- Genentech
- Google
- Hamas
- Harvard
- Honeywell
- I /
- IC
- Instagram
- Intel
- Keyance
- MIT
- Me Too
- Microsoft
- Muslim Brotherhood
- N
- NBA
- NVIDIA
- New York Times
- North Star
- OpenA
- Putnam
- Q
- Qualcomm
- Radio Free Europe
- Raytheon
- SaaS
- Se
- Sequoia
- SpaceX
- Stanford
- Stripe
- TSMC
- Teams
- Tesla
- UCSF
- UN
- Uber
- X
- YC
- YouTube

## LOCATION
- ##VI
- ##VIDIA
- ##quoia
- ##uo
- America
- Bay Area
- China
- Europe
- France
- India
- Iran
- Iraq
- Israel
- Klein
- N
- NVIDIA
- R
- Russia
- San Francisco
- Se
- Sequoia
- Silicon Valley
- Soviet Union
- U. S.
- U. S. I. C
- US
- Ukraine
- Wall Street
- Washington
- West
- White House

## PRODUCT

## EVENT

## WORK_OF_ART

## DATE

## MONEY

## QUANTITY



# Transcript


All right, Sean, thanks for doing that.
I'm really excited to talk to you today.
- You're able to be here, Jack.
What's going on, man?
- All right, so I want to go right into it.
So the first thing I want to talk about
is sort of like the current state of the media
and social media.
I'm not sure if I have--
- I have no opinions on this topic.
- You got nothing.
We can move on.
- I just kidding.
- I don't know if I had the timing exactly right,
but the way I experienced sort of you on Twitter
was October 7 happened and you got super vocal
and you started sharing a lot of opinions on X
that were kind of controversial,
that were strongly rooted.
They were ones that I agreed with,
but ones that many people were sort of afraid
to say in those ways.
I wanted to start there of just like,
what happened in that moment?
And did I read that right?
That there was some change in you
or the way you thought about how you were going to show up
around that moment?
- For sure.
You nailed it.
There's a pretty long backstory on this.
I'll try to keep it brief, but I,
Sean, the internet, the board in 1985,
first time he's in the internet was fourth grade
at my friend Nick Paltchikoff's house, AOL.
We went in AOL chat rooms.
We realized that we could impersonate
being a professional baseball player, Mike Piazza.
If you're listening, Mike, I've never met you,
but I did a great job pretending I was you in fourth grade.
You know this too, but there was just really something
about the internet in those points.
It was very new and the social elements of it were brand new
and this is a weird tangent, but like in physics,
when you study some system,
you start with very simple toy systems
that you can actually understand.
You study a single ball on a spring or a single ball
on a string, or you study with some simple system
and then you try to build up from there.
When you understand a simple system deeply,
it makes it much easier to understand the complex systems.
I feel like I got lucky with when I was born,
where I was on the internet in the very beginning
of the social element and so I think I was able to understand
as a participant, like how manipulation works,
how misinformation works, how it spreads.
And I'll give you an example on Mike Gots
and I've talked about this maybe twice before,
but you know, my friend and I, we would abtas,
like can we convince people as fourth graders
that we're a professional baseball player?
And we basically learned a tactic accidentally
that worked almost every time, call it 80% of the time.
You know, if you just come out in a forum and say,
"I'm Mike Piazza, no one's gonna believe you."
But if you join some chat room
and you're talking to people and you seem normal
and oftentimes what the time would then go into a sidebar,
you'd be talking to someone one on one.
You know, after talking to someone for a little bit
about random stuff, you know, the weather,
whatever their hobbies are, you know, they'd ask,
"What do you do?"
And if you're not the one that starts, you know,
with that and they ask, "What do you do?"
And be like, "Oh, I play baseball."
And they'd be like, "What do you mean you play baseball?"
Like, you know, like I get paid to play baseball
and they're like, "So you're a professional baseball player?"
It's like, "I guess so."
It's like, "Who do you play for?"
"Play for the Dodgers."
They're like, "You're lying."
Like, "What's your name?"
Like, "My name's Mike Piazza."
They'd be like, "Shut up, you're lying."
You know, and they'd be asked some question about you
and you'd be like, "You know, you have to know
"all the trivia on the person."
And so then you answer some basic questions.
And then I basically lead with,
"Look, I know it's hard to believe,
"but it's really hard for me to meet people in the real world."
I like to come on AOL and just talk to people.
You know, like, "No one's judging me."
All this. And that would click with people,
at least in 1995, or sorry, call it 1998,
something like that.
It was actually shocking where if you kind of did it that way,
at least in that time, today that wouldn't work.
But back then it worked.
So anyways, I really grew up in the early days
of the Internet. I started building websites.
I'd build a lot of prank websites
and just gained intuition for how information spreads,
what would go viral, all of this.
And I basically followed information warfare
from an early age.
And then I actually worked in the US government
doing some of that work.
But I was basically quiet online.
- That's what it's gonna say.
So you figured this out when you were like 12 or 13,
and then, you know, 20 years go by,
well, you just know this and you're probably learning more,
then you started exercising it.
- And I, well, I did some things anonymously.
That some very high impact.
- You want to be anonymous?
- I was running some anonymous accounts.
- I bet some.
- And I did some very high impact stuff.
And so I was still practicing a little.
- It was just something like that I understood,
but was not taking that seriously.
- Why didn't you do it?
Do you want to and you were held back
or were you just like not interested in doing it?
- It's a great question.
In some ways I was being held back
and not by any one employer, not by that, but it's,
I mean, kindly one thing is before you're 18
and after the rules are very different.
It's ill advised to take risk with some of these things.
- Well, I mean, I think we all kind of hold back
a little bit, like speaking for myself.
Like, you know, I wish I could be a little bit more
fearless online than I am.
I think a lot of people are.
And then I think, you know, people see what you do.
And there's a, you know, there's like a sort of
a jealousy admiration thing of like,
I wish I could kind of do that.
And so I think most of us feel whether it's
from our employer or our friends or, you know,
we're just afraid of people.
I think most people, I think the default
is people feel held back from going all the way open.
- Yeah, look, I felt that way for a while.
And when October 7th happened, it was a moment in my life
where for a variety of reasons, I felt like I have to speak.
And there's a lot to that.
One of the things is I had followed basically every conflict
in Israel in my lifetime, you know, and in the region
and had learned some of the information warfare tactics
from prior flare-ups.
So that was one thing is I felt like I understood
what tactics were going to be used in the future.
And so therefore had something to offer the conversation.
Another was I was just, to be very blunt,
like I was at a point in my life where I had sold a company
for a billion dollars.
And I didn't obviously make a billion dollars,
but I had made enough money to where if I got fired
and, you know, I wasn't going to starve to death.
And that's a very lucky privilege position.
- But you were unafraid.
- I was unafraid.
Like, you know, you get to a point where it's okay
if you, you know, get fired.
And so I was very lucky to be in that point.
So it's like, I felt like I had a lot of context
and stuff to say.
I was at a point in my life
where I was willing to face any consequences.
As crazy as it sounds, like even death.
Like I-- - Really?
- Really?
- You actually felt if I get killed, that's okay.
- Yeah.
- Wow, why?
How did you get to that?
Because that's such an uncommon place to get to.
- When I embarked on this endeavor
and I've quieted down on the Israel front Psalm
in the last, you know, six months.
In part, and I'll get to death in one second,
but just one basic philosophy I have
with information warfare is basically the first two weeks
are by far the most important.
There's basically three phase transitions.
The first two weeks, then the next six weeks.
So first two months.
And then basically everything after.
And that first phase, you have 90 plus percent
of the world's attention.
Almost everyone is, you know, reading the news,
trying to understand what's happening.
Then the next six weeks, probably 80% of people drop off
other than the people that have vested interests.
Like people that are Palestinian or Jewish
or live in the region or whatever,
they're still gonna be paying close attention.
But a lot of like, random people that work in,
you know, 4,500 company, 80%.
- They're on to the next thing.
- 80% are on to the next thing.
But some still pay attention,
especially a lot of students still pay attention
for this next six weeks.
And then you get a big drop off
and you're basically left from there
just with either the people that have
vested interest in the conflict
or people that are students to wear,
it's like their job to be learning right now
or people that have unlimited free time
or who in those first two months became obsessed
with this conflict to wear now.
It's part of their identity.
And so my philosophy is like, you wanna put,
I put 80% of my time into those first two weeks
and then, you know, a lot of time in the next six weeks.
- That's on any topic.
- On any topic, this is like a universal truth
of information warfare.
- Do you need to be a prepared mind
on the subject for that to work?
- 100%, like you have to be willing,
you have to basically already know what you're gonna say,
the second that the thing happens
because you can't get up to speed fast enough,
especially if you're on the weaker side,
like the side with fewer people, all of that,
because if you get a single talking point wrong,
you're gonna get piled on
and basically lose your credibility very early on.
If you can't anticipate what's coming next,
then you'll also get kind of embarrassed.
And if you also, if you don't already know
what's interesting to say or what's important context,
then it won't get attention,
especially when you're on the weaker side.
And look, the reality of this one is, you know,
there's 100 times more Muslims than there are Jews.
And, you know, obviously not Muslims
are not a, you know, point of view,
but vast majority of them side with Palestinians.
And it creates like a giant asymmetry
in terms of the support on this issue.
And the amplification of information
on the literally thinking through,
like I'm willing to die on this topic.
There are many people that have been killed
by Islamic radicals, like in the last few decades.
And, you know, you have, there's a certain line,
like I'm not even gonna say it,
but if you criticize a certain person,
you're almost certainly going to get killed.
And you have things like the Charlie Hebdo cartoon
in France, or, you know, there's like,
and that's a line I would never ever go to.
And I don't think is, like, I wouldn't feel right going there.
- Yeah.
- But when you say things, like there were certain things
I was willing to say that were a line below
that did lead to lots of death threats.
Like I've gotten many dozens of like credible death threats
in the last 18 months.
And like the line that I felt was very important,
or I think the two lines that I was willing to go
up to or a little over are one,
like, and I'll say here, but like,
if you mention children, like you get,
like it's just such a sensitive topic.
And the reality of this conflict is that,
like child soldiers are used.
Like the UN is not on the side of Israel,
but the UN, the UN's own data says that Hamas
has used child soldiers as young as 11 years old
for suicide bombings.
And the official recruitment age of Hamas,
according to the UN, at least before this conflict,
'cause they're now starting to scrub their data
from the past, but before October 7th,
the official, according to the UN,
the official recruitment age for Hamas was 15.
I think it's important to be willing to say those things,
to be a lot of context, that when they read,
you know, like a 16 year old was shot.
It can be an innocent 16 year old.
And in that case, it's an absolute tragedy.
And we should all be very sad.
But it could also be a 16 year old that's like armed
or on the front lines.
And that's just something that has to be thought about
differently.
And like, there's a different,
it's not always a Western standard
that's being applied in some of these conflicts.
And I think a lot of people lose sight of that.
- In some way, they feel like these issues,
maybe to your point, are just so tremendously complicated
that for most people in the West,
we don't even have the frame to start thinking
about these things.
And so that's probably part of why people
are silent on all these issues,
is they have a certain feeling,
but they know that they don't have the prepared mind.
They know they're not ready for the next argument.
And so a lot of people just kind of,
you know, if they kind of feel something,
they'll sort of clam up perhaps.
- This is one of the most complex topics in the world.
And look, there is this fundamental asymmetry,
which is because the pro-Israel side is so outnumbered
in the information warfare.
And it's not just civilians.
Like I think people don't understand how much
of a nation state involvement there is here.
And so on the simplest level, there's Al Jazeera.
Like Al Jazeera is, you know,
a mouthpiece of Qatari government.
They have strong Muslim Brotherhood ties.
Al Jazeera is like one, another like lesson
of information warfare that I've picked up
over the last few decades is the most sophisticated actors.
They do something smart, which is,
so take Al Jazeera Russia today, RT.
They're the most accurate source of news
you can possibly find on 95% of topics.
If they don't care about the topic,
it is literally the most accurate source of news
you can find because that way they get a lot of credibility
and someone will watch it and be like, wow,
this is really amazing reporting.
Like it's more nuanced, better than the BBC,
better than CNN, but then they leverage that credibility
on the 5% that they actually care about
that where they want to present this information to you.
And it's not only Israel, like one of the topics
for Al Jazeera that's heavily misinformationized is India.
And so anyways, when you have this lens
that they're trying to gain credibility
to launder it on the things they care about.
Anyways, it just changes how you perceive all these things.
And so in this information battle,
there's population asymmetry,
but there's also 55 Muslim-majority countries,
probably five of whom have spy services
that are literally have for decades been gaining
information credibility to try to use against Israel.
And so you're going against that.
You really have to have your facts straight
because if you get anything wrong,
you're gonna get absolutely destroyed.
- As somebody who used to trust the media,
like when I was younger, I was just like, yeah, it's the media.
And now I trust it very little.
I think that's like common is,
it's not that I think everything's wrong,
but it's this 95 five thing.
It's like, I don't know which thing I don't trust.
And then once that happens, it's very hard.
But so then we're in this fog of worry moment
where we don't have these media outlets that we fully trust.
You've got this like citizen journalist thing,
which I think is good.
- It's good, but it's also flawed.
It's general flawed.
- Yeah, exactly.
You don't exactly know who to trust there.
And people have the same kind of flaws.
And somebody who's very trustworthy on one topic
might be completely untrustworthy on another
and all this stuff.
And so it does feel to me like we're in a moment in time
where truth is hard to come by.
I'm hoping at least that this is like a transitory moment
and there's some resolution here.
But I'm curious your read on the situation
and like, where does this evolve into?
'Cause it feels in flux or something.
- I couldn't agree more.
I think we're at basically a low point in the truth
in our lifetimes and hopefully we come out the other side
in a stronger place.
But I think there's like at least two really important
factors here, if not three.
And so just to call them like,
I think it's important to know what you're dealing with.
One is I think that we basically have had a phase transition
in Western media in the West
that I think really started in the late '90s.
And candidly, I think Fox News like defected
in prisoner's dilemma.
And they realized that they can start putting out,
you know, highly editorialized--
- To go ahead and put it about the prisoner's dilemma.
- It was literally prisoner's dilemma.
I think until like through the early '90s,
I think both sides were, for the most part,
trying to do their best.
But Fox News defected, in my opinion,
they were one of the first.
Once they defected, CNN defected,
and then everyone defected.
And that was happening at a similar time that,
before social media, but then a decade later,
social media came and then that changed the incentives where--
- It's not worth it.
You should go for the headline.
- You gotta go for the headline.
So that created a second incentive,
which just in this negative feedback loop,
we defected in prisoner's dilemma.
And then once we were already out in the lower quadrant,
we were incentivized to basically put out thick news
and, you know, tell stories very quickly.
Although, so this is like one big trend.
The second thing that I think not enough people
really understand is just how much nation-state involvement
and like intelligence operations are involved
in the misinformation on all sides, including the U.S.,
like massively.
- You're saying like the U.S. is influencing
like the media outlets to tell stories.
- Everywhere.
But so is China, so is Iran, so is Russia.
All nation-states are doing this
and have been doing this for a long time.
But I think it's gotten much more extreme recently.
And just a couple of points on this.
If you go back to 2016 election,
there were all these fake news bot farms on Facebook.
attributed to Russia, I think probably Russia.
These tactics, like people don't ever stop doing
what they were doing.
They just get better at hiding it.
They get more sophisticated.
And Russia was not sophisticated enough at the fake news
in 2016 to where we were actually able to catch them
as relatively obvious as like an American citizen.
But they got more and more sophisticated over time.
And now it's at the point that you can't even tell
what's happening.
And it's not just Russia, it's basically everyone.
But I mean, the U.S. has been doing this forever as well.
Like even during the Cold War, you know,
we would start Radio Free Europe and start, you know,
radio stations to put out pro-democracy, you know,
content on the airwaves, which my interpretation
of is that's great, but everyone does this.
Living in America, greatest country in the world.
I am a maximum pro-America patriot.
But freedom of speech is kind of a root vulnerability
for America in that our adversaries get to use
freedom of speech as well.
And we don't get to use that.
We don't get to go into China or Russia
and, you know, say whatever we want.
Our news platforms, everything gets shut down there,
but they get to use it here.
And so we're in this maelstrom right now
of the news defected in the '90s and fully deteriorated.
Social platforms change the incentives, you know,
to go more for clickbait, have very fast responses.
And our nation state adversaries got more sophisticated
and especially in an era of social media
and all that, it was easier to, there's less of a check.
Like New York Times in the '60s, '70s, '80s,
they knew that Russia was trying to infiltrate
their newsrooms.
And so they were actively monitoring for it.
So just like all those checks went off the rails
and what we're left with right now,
it's just an extreme soup of lies and fake news
and misincentives.
And I think the best thing that anyone could do
is just really like assume
that everything you're consuming is wrong or a lie.
And I do think there's some optimism
that we can improve these things over the next few years.
Like I think we're close to rock bottom right now,
but people at least have to have this awareness.
- One thread I'm curious to pull on there is
when you think about, you know, decades ago
and what the US was like in the world then
and us sort of, you know, maybe slightly paternalistically
or very paternalistically sort of like trying to, you know,
push democracy and Western ideals through the world.
But we were like sort of like a hegemonic power at the time.
And now it's a little bit different.
And so now you sort of see,
without needing to go into a specific topic,
but you know, we could take any of the conflicts
around the world and you could ask the question,
should the US just look out for its own interests right now
or should we go like fight somebody else's battle
and like push our interests,
even at like a short-term cost to us.
That's kind of how on some level, you know,
when I think about, you know, Russia, Ukraine,
when I think about like all these dynamics,
a lot of what's at stake here is US sort of pushing
for its own ideals in the world
where in the 50s or 60s,
I would have been like, of course, the US would do that.
And now it's like less clear
when there's more in the balance.
And so what's like the optimal strategy there?
So I guess I'll just maybe quickly,
you read on that dynamic and is that right?
- Such a good question.
And obviously a big and tough question.
I have to call out that I'm coming
from an extremely strong pro-America perspective.
I love America.
I think it's the greatest country in the world.
But every country has flaws.
And I think we have to be realistic
about where we are today.
And, you know, next point, do you ever play poker?
- Yeah.
- When you play poker, you have to adapt your strategy
based on your chip size.
Like when you're the big stack
and it's like, it's only two people left at the table
and you have 100 X the chips of the other guy.
You should just make them go all in every hand basically
'cause the probabilities on your side
and you'll almost certainly meet them.
Whereas, you know, when you're--
- Small, you gotta pick your spot.
- When you're small, you gotta pick your spot
or when there's 10 people at the table
and everyone's relatively similar chip size.
You just, you have to adapt your strategy
based on the chip size people have.
And, you know, you use the word hegemonic.
Like, America 20 years ago, 30 years ago,
we just had such a big chip stack
that we were able to play a very different game.
Or if you go to the Cold War after World War II,
like after World War II, Europe had been pretty decimated.
It was really like a bipolar world at the time.
So the strategy when it's US, Russia,
and both are relevant or US, Soviet Union,
like use a different strategy there
than what we're in right now,
which is it's a multipolar world.
And America has sadly eroded our chip stack
over the last 20 years through many things,
through Iraq war, through sending our debt load
to 35 trillion, through outsourcing manufacturing
to China specifically.
Europe, in my opinion, being in a relatively weaker position
than they were in 20 years ago.
And as our pop ally, we have to adapt
to where the world is right now.
And sadly, I don't think America is strong enough
right now to fight every battle.
So we have to pick our battles.
We have to pick our spots like to use that poker analogy.
- So do you think the right like 30 year strategy
is to like, hunker down, build the chip stack back
and then go back to try, you know,
aspirationally getting back to that kind of place?
- The right strategy for the next 30 years
is a lot more hunkering down than it was the last 30 years.
I think we made a big mistake of being too loose
with our chips the last 30 years.
It's not, I don't think the strategy is to go all the way.
Like I think it's strongly in our interest
to still have like choose some strategic spots
where we exert a lot of leverage around the world.
So it's some, you know, it's, but it is to pull back some
but I don't think we should ever go back to that
like as hegemonic as we were.
- Every battle's our battle kind of thing.
- Every battle's our battle.
I think that's the wrong strategy
and I think it cost us a lot.
If nothing else, I think that that approach
didn't properly account for the second order effects.
For example, Iraq war, first order effects are, you know,
there's a lot of first order effects,
but you know, ran up our deficit, depleted some of our arsenal.
But some of the second order effects is,
it just created a lot of resentment for America in the world,
all over the place.
And that weakening of soft power has all sorts of ramifications
around access to resources around, you know,
like Europeans voting, like them having resentment
that they sent troops, you know, to support us in foreign wars
and, you know, and not voting with us in UN.
There's just all these things.
And I don't think we've done a very good job
of keeping track of the second order effects.
And so, look, I do think we need to have much more
of an inward focus the next two decades, three decades
than we've had before.
- Yeah, I guess it's just tricky
because as you unwind that poker position,
your opponents at the table start to see
that you're not gonna push
and then that changes their behavior too.
- 100%.
- They see that if you're not gonna, you know,
if not every battle is your battle,
like maybe this battle's not gonna be their battle either
and I'm gonna go maybe do something over here.
- Yep.
- But an expert poker player would, you know,
it's like, we played a couple of hands,
we lost a couple of hands.
Maybe it was the optimal strategy to play the hands
we got unlucky or whatever.
Now that everyone can see the chip stack,
like it's visible, you know, it's a,
and so I think everyone can see that it's rational.
But when you play poker, you have to bluff sometimes.
Like you can't just only, the optimal strategy
is to still bluff for something.
You can't only play perfectly rational because then-
- Yes, you still have to surprise your opponent.
- Yeah, you still have to surprise your opponent.
And so like the next few decades,
I think we should still be doing some very surprising things.
- Let's talk about U.S. politics a little bit
and sort of what sort of, I guess specifically
the switch that tech has gone through.
And I actually wanna draw a parallel between, you know,
from the tech side, like inside companies, you know,
but Brian Armstrong at Coinbase did, where he was like,
I can't remember exactly what, you know, when he said this,
but, you know, at one point, he was like-
- It was roughly May 2020.
- Yeah, and he was like-
- And I know exactly, I had been with him
like a week or two before.
- Okay, yeah.
- He's such a legend, proud of him.
- And when he did that, which now, you know,
being like, you know, we're focusing on our customers
and our products, that is a very bland thing to say today.
At the moment, people were pretty up in arms.
And like, so that transition happened where, you know,
he went out on what seemed like a limb,
but now it's like, of course, he was right.
And like, everybody remembers that.
At the same time, tech sort of politically went through
this big transition where Trump in 2016 and 20 was like,
you know, it was like a pretty heretical thing.
Like people were, you know, very quiet about
if they were supporting him and most weren't.
- I was not for the record.
- Yeah, and now it's, you know, it's, it is definitely
not heretical and it's also much more mixed
in terms of the way people are falling politically.
So I guess those two things seem to have something
in common, of course.
But like, what is that?
What is the underlying thing that's happened?
So that tech, I think has like swung as sharply as it has
in this sort of like deeper way than either just like
how it's voting or how it's behaving at companies.
- I just need to say one thing about my own personal journey
that then all tied into the broader tech journey.
But, you know, I came on and in the beginning of this,
I'm saying how I'm some misinformation expert
and information more for expert.
And I honestly think I am and I have a pretty long
track record of public and non-public stuff there.
But I got fully manipulated in 2016 to be very candid.
Like, where it came from is I was too trusting
of the U.S. intelligence community.
And I had worked in and with the U.S. I.C.
And I think there's many unbelievably great people,
some of the greatest heroes in America and the world
are in that community.
But I was raised like a lot of people,
my family were in the military and I was just like
extremely trusting of that community.
And my root vulnerability in 2016 to 2020
was I deeply trusted that community.
And so things like, you know, when people in the IC said
that Trump has ties to Russia in 2016,
like that for me, worst possible scenario,
if you would have a Manchurian candidate, president
that's owned by Russia and somehow skates through.
And then in 2020, I wrote about this a bunch,
but I still didn't vote for Trump there,
even though I had really liked his policies in 2020,
this first term, right two weeks before the election,
51 Intel officials, five former CIA directors came out
and, you know, said that the Hunter Biden laptop
was rushing to some formation.
And that sowed enough doubt in my mind that,
wow, maybe if Russia wants this guy to win,
then like I want whoever Russia doesn't want to win,
to win.
And that really worked on me.
I think everyone had different vulnerabilities,
different things that they, you know, data source
that they waited.
But for me, two things coincided, which were one,
I learned that I had just been deeply manipulated
and that was infuriating to me.
And the second thing was Silicon Valley starting around 2016
or so the Trump administration.
And I think that became such a, so much animosity
and people got more political and more vocal against Trump,
coincided with like the DEI movement,
James Demore, Google, Me Too movement, cancel culture.
I think a lot of people in tech simultaneously got
so frustrated by like cancel culture in the valley
at the same time where people were realizing
that they had been manipulated for a long time.
And those two things came together
and it was just like, fuck it, I'm pissed.
Like, you know, I'm going to start speaking my mind.
And once some people started to speak up,
it's just like every time one person said something,
it gets easier for the next person,
the next person, there are balls and that is something like,
from an information theory perspective, you can codify.
And that was something that was,
I was actually going through my mind was like,
that you can trigger an information cascade
with like small change in bits.
Yeah, it goes back to sort of the prisoner's dilemma thing
where once you see other behaviors like that,
it just gets much, much safer.
I also really like the root vulnerability concept.
I think that is like, I haven't heard it quite like that,
but I think that's something that like all positions
have that and understanding your own weakness
and where you can get trapped is probably really essential.
As tech's politics have kind of flipped from the left
to the right, what's interesting is I think
we like historically weren't that deeply embedded
in the government and now we actually are
and like what looks like a much more obvious way to me.
And you see like a bunch of players inside of tech
having much more influence with the government,
the government seems to care about tech in a way
that it never did, people get invited to the White House
or like, you know, it seems like they've got a voice
in all of these places.
Is ironic that this happened with Republicans,
not Democrats for what it's for?
It's crazy.
And it seems like that was like a real fumble
from the Democrats and it seems like they like had that
at their disposal this whole time, but here we are.
And one of the things I'm wondering about is will,
well, this drastically changed the types of companies
that become important.
And so I'm thinking about the types of companies
that maybe this got most like accurately
and medically captured by like Andreessen's,
American Dynamism Fund, there's all these companies
that require the government to do government scale things.
And you see this with Andoril and SpaceX and OpenAI
and like many others of, you know,
what are kind of like the biggest,
most important companies at the moment,
you know, coincidentally have
these big government relationships.
And so I'm curious, will this,
will this sort of tech government hybrid,
will this change companies or will this just make it
a little easier to navigate?
Like what's the impact for tech here?
- There's a lot of directions to take this one
initial quick thing.
In some sense, it's challenging and risky
to have tech be closer to Washington.
You know, like whenever you take aside your more at risk,
if something goes wrong, the conflicts of interest
are more acute.
And so I hope that like,
I think that we should have a deeper relationship
between tech and Washington
and Washington should be funding more ambitious tech projects.
And I think a lot of times like the government investments
into tech or loans, whatever have been,
I think treated unfairly.
They're seen as a conflict of interest,
whereas oftentimes these programs were, you know,
there's a broad agency announcement
and a lot of people bid on it
and a tech company happened to win it
or the loan was given to 10 companies,
nine were incumbents, one is a tech company,
but the media focuses on the tech company.
So look, I think we should be doing a lot more
and I hope we don't jeopardize that.
But the even bigger thing to me,
and I haven't said this too much publicly,
I wrote a manifesto for Sequoia a few years ago,
I think it was three years ago.
It's a hardware manifesto.
I've been obsessed with hardware my entire life.
You know, I have a PC and physics
and literally was obsessed with semiconductors as a kid.
I completely obsessed with the chemicals industry.
And I was also obsessed with early Silicon Valley.
And if you look at Sequoia,
Sequoia made almost all of its money,
the first 25 years on hardware investments.
You know, one of the first investors in Apple
and, you know, Cisco and, you know,
linear in many, many other companies.
NVIDIA, first investor in NVIDIA.
The last 25 years, Sequoia's made almost all
of its money in software.
And kind of a question I asked myself was,
like is hardware dead, long live hardware,
or is this kind of a secular trend?
Secular, you know, in a finance perspective,
especially like Wall Street oftentimes means like
longer trends than just one economic cycle.
And so I wrote this manifesto three years ago.
And now like it's obvious to everyone,
but literally in my manifesto,
I had like two stocks.
One was NVIDIA, one was Tesla.
And I really strongly believe we were just in like
a secular period where it was all about software
and not about hardware.
And some of my realizations, there's a bunch of things.
But one that I think is not fully appreciated,
almost by definition to like every software revolution
is preceded by a hardware revolution.
You can't have some new software platform
if you don't have the hardware to run it.
And for example, you can't have Uber and DoorDash
if you don't have the iPhone.
You need to have the App Store
and the App Store needs to have the iPhone.
And the iPhone required 20 years of development
with Qualcomm, Broadcom, you know,
fiber, CapEx, all sorts of Cisco,
but there was 20 years of hardware before that.
To have, you know, deep learning,
you need to have the GPU, to have the cloud,
you needed 20 plus years of cheap, you know,
of CPUs getting really cheap.
Like the kind of the whole point of the cloud
is that we got to a point where hardware got cheap enough
that you can, you know, put a ton of relatively commodity
hardware in one place and operate
and you get like an economic advantage to do it that way.
Anyways, you can name any software revolution history
and is preceded by a hardware revolution,
something like VR today.
Part of why we don't have great VR software
is the hardware's not good enough
and it's getting better very quickly.
And the input to VR hardware, like a lot of it,
it's byproduct of what's been happening with the iPhone.
Like a lot of the, I think sensors in general,
one of the most underrated technologies in the world,
there's, my estimate is about a trillion dollars
a market cap of companies that are basically
sensor companies are selling sensors.
A lot of the market cap of Honeywell or Raytheon
are from sensors, but there's many other companies.
Keyance is a hundred billion dollar market cap company.
Anyways, like, is hardware dead or are we missing something?
And I really think we've been missing something.
I think that thing is that basically the way
Moore's Law happened, you know, hardware matured
in a bunch of different areas all around the same time,
which led to a bunch of software ecosystems all catching on.
And now as you go to, and now a lot of those
have run out, like the app store was very few new
interesting apps getting created.
VR is not quite here because the hardware has to get better.
In my opinion, AI is still hardware, hardware limited.
You see it with the AI data center build outs,
but it's not just going to be NVIDIA that benefits.
There's going to be a bunch of other companies
on the hardware level that, that benefit,
we're seeing the beginning of autonomous vehicles,
like just on and on and on.
I think we're at the beginning of a new hardware revolution.
Silicon electronics are starting to become silicon photonics.
We've just kind of gotten the first commercial applications
of silicon photonics that are actually economically viable.
Anyways, I think we're entering a new era
where the next 25 years through robotics and AI and space
and, you know, and then some of the later platforms like VR
and then bring computer interfaces
and medical technology, all these things.
I think we're entering like another golden era
and obviously defense technology to a massive extent.
I think we're entering another era
where that's going to be like a very money-making opportunity.
And like that requires government partnership
or at least it's enhanced.
And if we want to compete with China.
Because it's such big dollars or something else.
Because it's big dollars also because of like the look,
the biggest driver historically as an early adopter
of hardware has been the defense department.
Like I don't think that's something that should be ignored.
And I think one of the other biggest trends in the world
right now is like literally one of the biggest macro trends
is for 25 years we were outsourcing manufacturing to China.
And now we're bringing it back.
And that re-onshoring is just an insane driver also
of like hardware development in America.
- So like if you think about this, you know,
as it applies to investors.
Sequoia did all this, you know,
investing in this crazy company a long time ago,
you know, over the last 20 years software, you know,
not to do another Andreessen thing
that software is even in the world.
That's obviously what dominates.
- Software, Andreessen, amazing at marketing, obviously.
- Really, very good.
And that was right.
And, you know, that's kind of what's played out.
And I think, you know, outside of a couple names,
which are incredibly important asterisks, you know,
like Annual and SpaceX and, you know,
some other companies that are very hard,
hard tech problems and companies.
I think most investors who invested in, you know,
hard tech over the last 15 years, maybe let's say,
like just like mostly didn't go well.
I don't know what the overall returns is if you, you know,
if you include these like outlier companies,
I don't know, like maybe actually with the long tail,
it's actually very good still.
But my question is, was it a bad time
and now it's a good time?
Or is your mental model that hardware companies
are even more of a power law than software companies?
And so as a result, it is very good to invest
in this kind of stuff.
If you are capable of doing it,
but if you're bad at it,
you are like more likely to lose your money
than average, you know, like another way to say this would be,
I think the sort of prevailing wisdom,
which you might agree with, you might disagree with,
but you know, would be like a smart enough reasonable
in the mix San Francisco investor,
who runs around making investments in a lot of sort of good,
you know, what we would think of as, you know,
sort of classic AI software companies right now,
will probably get a hit, they will probably do fine,
but you know, going and investing in hardware companies,
like unless you hit a big one,
you're gonna like, you might get zeros all around.
So like, how do you think about,
is it about the time or is it about
not everybody's equipped to do this type of investing?
- I think all of the things you just said are true.
I think it was a bad time to be investing in hardware.
On average, the last 25 years and you know,
with the caveat that I think some of the best investments,
simultaneously, some of the best investments
of the last 20 years were hardware companies,
SpaceX, Tesla, I'm of the camp
that NREL is gonna be an absolutely giant company.
- Me too.
- I think on a relative basis,
I think like the amount of market cap
that will have been created retroactively
by hardware companies the last 25 years will be
very little compared to what it was for the 25 years before
and what I think it will be the next 25 years.
I believe it was a bad time.
I also think that most VCs were not equipped
to invest in hardware, but that's okay.
It's like the industry evolved for that
because it was a bad, like just bad macro time.
- Are you saying that VCs were not in that moment
or do you think even in a good moment for hardware,
most VCs are not equipped to invest?
- I think a lot of the VCs that were good
the last 25 years are not equipped
to invest into a hardware era.
- It seems like a really different mindset
because, you know, to your point,
hardware comes first and then the software comes.
And so you have to think way differently.
- For sure.
- Versus when you see this things working,
now I can just add on some application of it.
- Earlier today, I was reading the story
of how Kleiner incubated Genentech
and I mean, like they literally incubated the company.
I can't remember the name of the partner
that really did the work, but basically this person
had been following some of the top
bio work out of, you know, in the Bay Area
and there was faculty member,
Stanford faculty member at UCSF
where he'd been following their work
and basically approached them
to try to commercialize the work
and Kleiner convinced them to start a company.
Brooke Byers, my friend Blake Byers dad
was one of the people that was kind of on this team,
but it was three people from Kleiner
that basically approached them
and convinced them to start the company.
The idea of like you have a VC
that's reading the scientific literature
and finds these two professors
and thinks they can create a new platform in biotech
and then goes and starts to come in with them
and then, you know, you build a company for decades.
That's just not how most VCs have been doing the job
the last few decades.
And granted, I think it's still how a lot of people
in life science VC have been doing it.
But actually, I don't think that's
where the biggest hardware opportunities
are going to be the next 20 years.
And so just to use that as a thought experiment,
that's just not how VC has been done the last few decades.
But I think there's also something very important you said,
which is, look, I do think the power law curve
of hardware is steeper.
One of my insights around, I think, why?
I think one, I think there's a fundamental difference
between software companies and hardware companies,
many, many, many, many.
But one is, with software company,
if you have a successful first product,
the probability that you come up with an organic second
successful product in your company is very low.
It's like almost, if you do the conditional probability,
like it's basically the same probability
of being successful with the product from the outside.
You don't get many advantages once you have a product.
There are some distribution advantages,
but you don't get much of an advantage
for creating a new product.
You can acquire things that already work and roll that in,
such as how this book acquired Instagram
or Google acquired YouTube.
But with hardware companies, it's fundamentally different.
Like basically every hardware company in history
that's had a first successful product
will have dozens of subsequent successful products.
Like name any hardware company, go on their website,
they'll probably have dozens if not hundreds of products.
Go look at, you know, Broadcom, Qualcomm, Cisco,
Danohair, Tesla, NVIDIA.
And for a lot of reasons, one is once Apple,
like any hardware company,
if you're doing it right, I think,
sometimes you're not taking much market risk.
It should be something where if you build it,
like people want it, but building it is very hard.
And the hardest part about building it
is oftentimes not designing it.
It's like figuring out the supply chain.
It's, you know, it's figuring out the--
- It costs it scale.
- It costs it scale, the capital cycles office.
Like take Apple, 'cause I think it's a simple example.
They have so much leverage over their supply chain now
that after the iPhone, if they wanna make the iPad,
they have so much leverage and they can go get, you know,
production capacity from TSMC or whatever.
Apple probably is the best sensor team in the world,
especially for men's-based sensors,
like micro mechanical machines.
And like they reuse their sensors
across all the different product lines.
They use the infrared camera for Face ID in the phone
and in the iPad and now in the VR goggles.
And, you know, and each individual component
is a moat in and of itself.
And so what happens is I think with these hardware companies,
once you're successful, that success just compounds,
I think at an even greater rate on average,
it's harder to get success with the first product.
But once you do.
- It leads to a lot more.
- It leads to a lot more.
Whereas the software companies,
like the first market you go after is much more important.
- Yeah, I mean, I think that's mostly right.
I mean, what was going through my mind is you said that
as I was starting to think of examples
like a Microsoft or a Workday that do become these,
you know, we saw what happened with Teams and Slack
and you that, so it's not to underestimate
that distribution advantage.
- For sure.
- It's more that the hardware company
also has that distribution advantage
and now they have this creation advantage.
- They also have a supply chain advantage
and a creation advantage and just much bigger moats.
But I think the Microsofts of the world,
I think they're few and far between
compared to hardware companies.
Like I challenge you to find a hardware company
that doesn't have dozens, if not hundreds,
of successful, organically grown products.
- And it's just because once you've already got
all that stuff, it's so much easier for you
to make the next one.
- For sure, for sure.
It's actually amazing that Apple restrained itself
to as few products as it did for as long as it did.
- For sure.
- Given that they could have clearly just proliferated
but like everybody else did
and they're just like, we're gonna have five.
- For sure.
You have to get to the point where you're really strong
before you go start taking on all these other products
but once you're really strong, like with one product
that's gonna compound like crazy.
- As you were talking about, you know,
how a lot of investors operated decades ago
and you know, incubating and Genentac and all these things,
there's a part of me that as I reflect on my own sort of
journey here where, you know, I've been building, you know,
a company up until a year ago and now I'm, you know,
investing, which I really love doing.
If there's an insecurity I have sometimes,
I'm like, I was, I was doing the work
and now I'm supporting the people doing the work.
I don't think that that's like a productive mindset
necessarily but like that, you know, if I'm on a day
where I'm like insecure about what I'm doing,
that's what the insecurity is and you also--
- You'll grow out of it.
- Yeah, hopefully, yeah.
I'll just forget that I did it ever and that'd be great.
You know, you built a company and you were very successful
and now you've been an investor for a while.
Like talk me through, you know, will I grow out of it?
Like, did you have that and how do you think about this
and is there other ways to do it
where you agree with that statement versus not?
- No, you'll definitely grow out of it.
You know, that said, you may get the itch at some point
to start another company.
Like I think they're different phases of life.
I'm gonna use a few weird analogies.
I have a lot of weird analogies.
One is with mathematicians.
So there's this saying it's not 100% historically accurate
but that a lot of the best,
like almost all of the best mathematical results
are from young mathematicians.
It's called before the age of 30, roughly.
And like the field's metal, it's for work before the age of,
you have to be 40 by the time you get it.
So, you know, the work has to be a few years before that.
You know, there's this saying that mathematics
is young person's game.
There are some counter examples,
like some incredible mathematical work
that people did later in life.
But I think for the most part, it's true.
- Yeah, yeah.
- And as a former kind of mathematical physicist,
the reality of life is like,
there are different phases of life.
And like I have two boys, little boys,
it's the best saying in the world.
But it would be very hard for me to do math
the way I used to, like with all the responsibilities
I have now and having a family and being a parent,
I want to be. - Yeah.
- And all this, like it's basically impossible.
When Gregory Perlman solved the point, create conjecture,
basically spent years living in Russian forests, you know,
just literally just thinking about this one problem
in Max Otis way, which I respect a lot,
and he pushed humanity forward in the process,
or when Andrew Wiles solved for Max last year,
I'm like, he, I think it was seven years of work
where he was just fully, it's the only thing,
waking up, breathing this thing.
And I think it's hard to, for those types of problems,
I think it's hard to do anything else.
You have to put all the concept into the ram in your head
and just keep them there and process.
Like if you shut down the computer
and purge the memory, the I/O time is very long
and you'll just never make any progress.
- I don't want to interrupt, but I'm sure you've read
the book on Mathematician's Apology, the GH Hardy book,
and then it's about, you know,
this great mathematician who reflects back,
you know, reflects back on--
- And Hardy's the one that's basically found Ramanujan.
- Yeah, yeah, exactly.
And he's sort of like reflecting later on, you know,
I did this work when I was at a certain age to do that work,
and then, you know, how do you grapple with that over time?
And I think different people grapple with that,
differently, I think for some people,
there's like a, I think the unhealthy,
the grappling I don't want to have with, you know,
to bring it to where I think you're going to go
with the metaphor of building a company,
is the negative grappling would be to sort of
have those be the glory days and, you know,
you're always like dreaming you were back in high school
on the Varsity Team and versus a positive grappling,
I imagine, would be to be like,
that was a beautiful chapter of life
and now how can I productively make that something
that I pass on and support people in there, you know,
being a 25 year old mathematician days?
- Exactly, exactly right.
Like I think we have to celebrate
the different chapters in life, you know,
and like to continue the mathematics example,
I have a friend, Yufe Zhao, who is a legendary,
talented young mathematician at MIT,
who he was doing the best work at a young age.
He still does incredible work,
but he then got really involved in coaching
the Putnam team at MIT and basically trained
a whole generation of young mathematicians.
He basically broke the Putnam at MIT
and like that work of mentoring the next generation
and then taking on a lot of students
and teaching them how to kind of write their first paper
and do real research grade mathematics.
Like that's just a different skill,
but I think that probably has even more of an impact,
like, you know, enabling that whole generation of next people.
And then, you know, I think Yufe is going to have
another chapter in his life coming up,
which another analogy from science,
my PhD advisor, John Preskill, who's an amazing guy.
I haven't seen her talk to John in a while,
but he's, I'm sure John's gotten shit
from my political views recently,
given the state of academia.
But John, I still love you.
You're an amazing guy.
I've learned so much from you.
But John had a saying where basically every 10 years
you should kind of switch some fields of physics.
He started his career doing particle physics,
high-energy physics.
Like, he had one of the proposals
for a dark matter particle candidate.
And then he moved into, in the early 90s,
kind of the early, like, string theory days,
like, holography, how does all that work?
And then in the late 90s, he was one of the first
kind of real theoretical physicists
to go into quantum information theory
and early quantum computing.
And then about 10 years he went,
and I mean, he built, like,
the top quantum information group in the world.
And then over the last 10 years,
he kind of went back to thinking about
what happens inside black holes.
And going back early in his career,
he had won a few bets against Stephen Hawking,
and they were some of the early people that thought about,
like the black hole information paradox,
and he went back to it 30 years later with much deeper tools.
I think this is another philosophy,
is like, I think that every 10 years
to switch what you do a little bit,
it's very powerful, 'cause you then cross-pollinate ideas,
you basically cross-pollinate relationships,
you have wisdom from this area.
Also things just naturally go stale over some period of time.
- Yeah, and you force yourself back
to some amount of beginner's mind.
I think that's what I appreciated
is I got to a place where I was like,
I kind of have my ideas about how I should do this
as a CEO at this stage and whatever,
and you unshackle when you do a new thing,
and you're like, I have no choice but to go back
to thinking like a beginner, which feels healthy.
- Completely agree.
I think good articulation,
I think that was in a lot of ways,
like the key point he was making,
so you articulated better than I did.
- So when you think then about the,
given sort of this sort of way of doing it
in a way that you're proud of or excited by,
or you know, resolves nicely in the sort of fuller context
of life, are there types then of investing
that are more in line with what you think is,
the word honorable just came to mind,
that's not the word I mean exactly,
but like that are more fulfilling and meaningful
versus types that are more just like who cares,
even if I'm gonna make money on this,
it just doesn't, who cares, what am I doing?
- I shouldn't answer this, but I'm going to,
as you started in the beginning, I don't want back.
Look, I generally get way more fulfillment
from hardware companies.
I think that at the end of the day,
hardware companies are the ones
that really move the ball forward on humanity
in general more than software,
and that's not exactly, it's not always true.
But as a general statement,
I think that hardware companies are something that,
like if one hardware company doesn't happen,
the whole category might not happen,
like if Elon didn't push SpaceX,
who knows where humanity would be with space today?
If he didn't push Tesla, who knows where EVs would be?
If Steve Jobs didn't push Apple,
like who knows where personal computing would have been?
And like it would have happened,
but maybe five, 10 years more slowly.
You know, if there's just so many examples of this,
where I think that an individual hardware company
can really change the timeline
in which whole industries happen more than software.
I think software is more inevitable.
Once the macro ingredients come into place,
like I think the software companies are almost inevitable
and going back to science,
there's this concept in science
that like ideas are in the air.
Calculus was invented simultaneously
by Newton, Am, Leibniz, and other people,
like all the raw ingredients are there.
I think with hardware,
ideas are, it requires more of like a stroke of genius
or the real-- - Like great man theory type stuff.
- Yeah, great man theory is like Edison
and Tesla were like psychos.
And if they didn't exist, you know,
like it's hard to know if the Wright brothers,
like it's hard to know what would have happened with aviation.
So I do believe a little bit more
in the great man theory with this.
And so therefore, the places where I've gotten
the most fulfillment have been like seeing something
with hardware earlier than others and being more--
- Yeah, I mean, the other big difference is like science
and math, you know, you might say eventually
must get discovered, like if it's true,
and eventually someone's gonna find out that it's true
versus with like nobody had to make Apple,
like Apple didn't have to be like Apple,
it could have been anything, you know,
somebody decided to make it that way.
- And because Steve did it
with such a specific intent,
like being like, I just watched an amazing clip yesterday
of him talking about Microsoft.
And he basically says like, they had no spirit.
They had, you know, and he respects them,
they built a great business,
but that they had no design sense, no spirit.
And that he viewed Apple as like a cultural movement
and that it's, you know, that for example,
if he didn't bring in type setting,
like it might not have ever happened
and we might have had ugly text forever, you know,
just not only does it take someone to do it,
but the person that does it gets to really set
the agenda for how that field happens.
- He saw a clip of him the other day talking about how like,
this is like a long time of decades ago,
like 80s or 90s or something.
He's talking about how like, wouldn't it be amazing
if you could ask Aristotle questions and how like, you know,
and, you know, maybe that's kind of where AI is going now
with stuff and, but like to have that kind of vision
and narrative and that's what rallies people
to build towards that vision in there.
I think that's like a big part of what's required for these
is somebody has to just like hold this North Star
for so long to so many people
because it's so hard to make this stuff happen.
Maybe this we can end on this question, you know,
with that backdrop, you know, and you think about
the way that VCs can be operating or should be operating
or it's 'cause, you know, what we're talking about right now,
like I'm like, this has me fired up.
Like now I'm like, I feel good about being, you know,
an investor, like this is great.
But so much of it is so, it can be so, you know,
memetic and there's so much herd mentality
and there's so much because you're, you know,
because you're abstracted from the building
unless you're, you know, incubating
and building companies yourself.
It, you know, seems very easy for people
to get caught up in the wrong stuff.
And so I guess like how do you think about like
what VCs should be practiced like today?
- Trey Stevens and Marky, I think our last name is Wagner.
They wrote this piece a couple of years ago
called Choose Good Quest.
- Yes, I loved that.
- It was amazing.
And I thought that was a great articulation of it.
I'm not gonna knock anyone that wants to create a widget,
go create, if that's what gives you joy, go create a widget.
But in my opinion, like I get my joy from either choosing
good quests myself or trying to help other people
on good quests.
There's probably 20, 30% of the companies
that backed are not there.
Like they're kind of more widget companies
and something just to call out.
I also love people and like there are some humans
where like, if I deeply love some founder
and they are obsessed with some widget,
then sometimes I get excited to give them money
to go do that.
- Also by the way, widgets sometimes surprise everybody.
Like this like, you know, the YC thing
that like, you know, great things often start like a toy.
And sometimes it looks like a widget now
it grows into something unbelievable.
And so we're just starting with widgets on.
- Exactly, exactly.
Like the calls from others before Stripe did Octomatic,
which I don't even know exactly what David was.
I think it was like, sub stack before sub stack.
And it became Stripe.
- And potentially even on day one of Stripe,
you wouldn't have necessarily had this type of sort of like,
like star struck conversation about what it was
they were building and it evolved into something
that turned out to be incredibly important.
- And I'll just say on that, John and Patrick,
they're such curious people.
They're just, they're like maximally curious,
maximum voracious readers.
And I understand why they like, I can imagine sitting
in an Octomatic pitch from them at 20 years old or whatever.
And just seeing their passion for it and be like,
okay, these are brilliant young guys that are,
I don't care about this widget, but they're obsessed with it.
So I'll give them money to go do it.
And I think that there's something very pure in that.
And then it kind of, not in that company,
not that kept table, but then those people
and like the kernel of lessons from that company became Stripe,
which I think is going to revolutionize financial technologies.
It's already well on the way towards that.
And so I, to your point, like, you never know
where these things are gonna go.
And that is some of the investing I do.
But I also, I really admire people
that choose good questions from the beginning.
- Sorry, I have to keep asking.
- No, keep going.
- Do you think that outlier people
are the limiting ingredient to us
having more outlier companies?
- I don't think it's the only limiting factor,
but I think it's definitely one of them.
And if you look kind of in any given year in history,
like at the number of unicorns or decicorns that are formed,
like the, in terms of realize exits.
I'm not talking VC fake marks in capital cycles.
I'm talking like actual exited companies.
Like it's relatively consistent for a long time.
And I think that says something around,
like at any given moment,
there's not that many real big new market opportunities.
So I think it says something about that.
And I think it also says something,
it either says only purely the number of market opportunities
or it says only something about the number of outlier founders
or some combination of the two.
But I think it's, I think it's both.
And I do think we're limited by outlier founders,
but I also think we're limited by VCs
that are willing to give money to,
like they're able to recognize outlier founders
that have a good idea and then give them capital.
And there's other constraints.
- As you've sort of, you know,
working at a place that's obviously, you know,
kind of at the top of the game,
have you picked up things there specifically
about how to identify what that looks like?
Because one of the things I, you know,
don't have a good answer to is,
I mean, I know, I know somebody who's outlier now,
like I know, you know, when I see, you know,
calls and talk or you see, you know,
these amazing people now, you're like,
okay, I know good when I see it now,
but that's a very different thing than, you know,
they didn't look the same.
- For sure.
- When they were 20 and all rest of it.
Like, is that, is that, is that kind of taste in people?
Is it teachable?
Are there things that you learn by watching?
Or is there things you could learn by reading or thinking?
Like, what is that?
- On the first part of the question,
I have to say I have learned an unbelievable amount
being at Sequoia.
Like really I have learned a lot being at Sequoia.
And it, and that's on all dimensions.
It's how to think about markets.
It's also how to think about founders,
how to find outlier founders.
We're pretty obsessive around the language we use
for how to talk about founders.
And I've also, I've just learned an incredible amount
about company building, everything.
Like the place, there's 50 years
of institutionalized knowledge
and an obsessive culture around documenting lessons.
- That language thing is so hard
because you'll hear so frequently people be like,
oh, this founder is really spiky.
Or you'll hear this language that to me comes off as
- It's horrible.
- Inaccurate.
- It's totally inaccurate.
And most people are completely uncalibrated.
- It's unhelpful.
It doesn't help me be better at assessing next time.
- Genuinely I have learned an unbelievable amount
from Sequoia.
And, you know, there's people like Mike Ritz,
Ruloff, Jim Gatz, Doug Alfred, such like,
these people are all unbelievable reads of people
and I've learned a lot.
But I also think I've contributed a few things.
And one of the things that I contributed
that I'll share here is one way
that I think about outlier founders
is I think about the chess rating scale
and I kind of wrote something internally on this.
- And here's a thought experiment for you.
Do you have, have you played chess?
- Yeah, I didn't get that far up the elo rating,
but I played chess, yeah.
- So in chess, the highest rated players, you know,
2,800 plus like Magnus and others.
And like a still like a pretty good players,
even a thousand or whatever.
Like a not, but like a thousand rated player will be
- They're not making stupid mistakes.
- Yeah, they're not making stupid mistakes.
And they'll be someone that doesn't play any chess.
If you, here's thought experiment.
If you ask like a thousand rated chess player,
you have them watch, they get to see a game
and they don't know who's playing.
They just see the moves of like 1,400 rated players,
1,800 rated players, 2,200 rated players, 2,600 rated players.
They get to see just the moves of each of those games.
And you ask them to place on the rating scale,
like from one game, what is the elo in each of these games?
They can't do it. Like they can't tell the difference
of the 2,600 versus 2,600.
- I was in the farther from you, it is,
the more unable you are to do it.
- Yeah, 100%. Yeah. Within like one standard deviation
or something, you usually can, but beyond that, you can't.
Whereas if you do it the other direction,
if you ask the 2,600 rated player to judge a 2,200 rated game
and 1,800 game, 1,400 rated game,
and now it's making, they can watch 10 moves
and they can basically tell you the elo of those people.
- And so one of the things that I'm obsessed over
is calibrating on, like if someone says
this person is an outlier in AI, are they--
- Are you a 1,000 saying that a 1,500 is an outlier?
- Exactly. Are you a 1,000 saying a 1,500 is an outlier?
Or like what is the rating of the person making the statement?
You know, is this nomchazir or Ilya Siskovar
or whoever, like saying that this person's really good?
Or is it like a Stanford undergrad in CS?
And a lot of people, they struggle to understand
like the level of the person giving them the reference
that really fails with tail behavior and tail people.
- I love this analogy just to push on it
so I better understand it.
And I do watch, I do watch chess on YouTube
of 2,600s playing and they make a move
and I'm like, that was a dumb.
And I'm like, I know I just don't understand the move.
And so I just, I know that I'm that.
I do, I'm terrible at basketball,
but I know what an NBA player looks like
and I could see an NBA player.
So what parts of being a founder are which--
- I think the chess scale only applies
to purely intellectual things.
I think that a lot of other skills, like say,
sales ability, I think that is something
that's more like being good at basketball.
It's much easier to audit with your own eyes
than almost anyone can tell compared to outlier intellect.
And I think to outlier intellect,
it doesn't always translate.
So being really good at chess doesn't mean
you're really good at math.
I'll give you, I'm gonna, I have to kind of go through this
'cause I think this is important.
I'm gonna take off my jacket.
- Yeah, it's a little warm in here, sorry.
- No, no, it's great.
- These lights.
- So I'm gonna give you another crazy example
of like just how many levels of outlier
there are in mathematics.
In mathematics, I mean, I think there are like 20
distinct levels that order of magnitude
beyond just like really good at math in a high school class.
At the highest end, you have like best mathematician
in decades or century, you know,
these are the like Terry Tao level mathematicians.
One level below that, that's kind of a distinct level below.
Is someone that's basically guaranteed
to get a fields metal?
It's like best in a decade at someone that does, you know,
three or four things that would be
where they have a fields metal
and they're basically guaranteed to.
- And they're unmistakably different from each other?
- They're unmistakably different.
- The fields metal person would be like,
I know that, I talk to that person, I know I'm not.
- That person, they'll like best in 100 years,
they're like the Gauss or Euler or, you know,
there's small number of these people in history.
They could get a fields metal in almost any sub area
of math, like they can just go in,
they know more about almost any sub area
than the experts in that field.
But it's like you have the once and century
of once in a decade, then you have the like, you know,
the person that easily got a fields metal.
And then you have the person that kind of got
a little lucky to get the fields metal.
Like there's maybe, there was like a 25% chance
or 50% chance in this political-
- They picked the right sub field for their brain
and for the moment in time and whatever it's like that.
- And like the political, they wrote the thing
in like the political tides aligning their favor,
their sub field was a little hot at the time or whatever.
And then you have another level would be the people
that like don't get a fields metal,
but get tenure at a top five math department
at a really young age, you know,
like at Harvard there was this guy, Nom Elkis,
who I was one of the youngest,
if not the youngest, tenured math professor there.
- Like early 20s kind of saturation.
- Yeah, early 20s, mid 20s, you know,
and so like this is like another level.
Then you have the people that either easily get tenure
at a top five department or get tenure,
but call it in the early 30s
or get tenure at like mid 20s at a five to 20 university.
- Does that 23 year old Harvard tenured professor,
do they yet know that they are not one of the higher
echelons or is it still an open question
at the time they're 23?
- It's a little bit of an open question, but not much.
I think that the best mathematicians in the world,
like Terry Tao can talk to almost any mathematician
and basically understand where they are
in the like almost instantly.
- Age adjusted and everything.
- Age adjusted, you know, and not below,
not at the age of like 12.
- Yeah.
- Because so much of that is just like how passionate
have you been it and what was your early exposure?
But by the time people start doing like research mathematics,
I think that people can tell very quickly.
- It's crazy.
- You know, another level below that is like,
okay, you just you get tenure at a top five math department
at any age, you know, and then it's like you get
tenure at a top 20 math department
and then it's just you get a PhD from a top math department
easily, you know, and then it's you get a PhD in math
from like a top 20 department easily.
And then it's you just get a PhD in mathematics.
And then it's, you know, you studied math in college
and you basically, you were summa cum laude.
And then it's like you were, I think there's,
there's still like another five level.
And then it's even the case.
- And all these levels are still impressive to most of us.
- Yeah, yeah, they're all distinct and like everything
I've mentioned, like obviously this is 800 on the math SAT.
- Of course.
So it's not a useful metric.
- It's not even a useful metric.
There's like 15 distinct levels minimum above 800
on the math SAT that someone at the top can basically look down
and tell you about all of them almost instantly.
So look, you have to like with founders,
you have to think about what is the outlier trait
that I'm trying that is important for this company?
You know, like if it's a robotics company,
being really good at robotics is important,
but being good at chess is irrelevant.
You know, if it's a sales oriented company,
it doesn't matter how great you are.
But kind of knowing what dimension matters
and then being able to place where on the scale they are.
So you can actually have like a nuanced,
you can actually underwrite in your investment thesis
is very important.
Very few people do this.
- So if you're just the, you're merely the summa cum laude,
you know, or you're merely the, I got my PhD easily.
But you know that these hard companies are built by mega outliers.
Like, should you play the game even?
Like if you're like, I'm not going to know Euler
when I see him, like what's the point of even trying that?
- You know, there's many factors
that go into building a company.
And so my comma is really just around underwriting
for this type of company.
I think, you know, being like for this AI company,
foundation model, just how good are the researchers?
You know, like, I think that is an important part
of underwriting, you know, like an AI research
or in the like robotics world model companies.
Like just how good are these researchers?
And you want to back the absolute best
is they're going to track the best, et cetera.
But in, you know, a basic SaaS company, it's not that important.
- How does this language show up in like a Sequoia
sort of analysis of a company?
Like how do you use this metaphor, which I love?
How do you apply this?
Is it about, is it about which partner
we should be listening to and like who's got like, you know,
like sort of Bridgewater style?
Like who is the trustworthy voice here?
Is it about like, you know, what's it about?
Like how do you apply it?
- Yeah, we just try to get very specific
on what traits matter for this company.
Is this founder and outlier in those,
like in those traits that matter?
What level of outlier are they?
When we're doing the references on them qualifying,
what is the ratings equivalent?
$25 or $25.
- Yeah, like who is giving this assessment?
Is this a thousand rated chess player giving the rating
or is it a 2,400 rated chess player?
And so it's, but like you can't just say
this is a spiky founder, that's a quote.
That's not, that will not fly.
And we care a lot about the texture of how we describe.
- It's interesting because I think people who are investors
who are sort of more market driven or, you know,
I think this often comes with later stage investors are,
I think one more precise in the way that they evaluate
versus people who are more founder driven
or often more vibzy.
But I don't think it has to be that way.
It seems like it feels like you could get merely as intentional
and specific about the way that you are founder driven even
and that it's just, most people just don't do that work
and know even how to talk about it.
- I am naturally not very good at language
and it was never interested in language.
And it's one of the things that I've learned from Sequoia.
Like Sequoia is obsessed with language, obsessed with words,
things like we don't invest in companies
we partner with founders.
We don't, you know, do deals we partner with companies.
When we write memos, we don't say I, we say we.
I think Don Valentine gets a lot of credit for that.
He was obsessed then.
I think Mike Moritz took it to a different level.
- You do speak in metaphor a lot though,
which is something that I think is very necessary
if you're going to try to be accurate about founders
because I think so much of it is having those devices
to try to like take this very amorphous thing
and like put it onto a map that you can do anything with.
- I think that way, but I didn't connect it to language
before Sequoia.
So this is one of the many things that I've learned there.
- Well, all right, I'm going to let you go.
It's been a long time and it's warm in here.
Thank you for doing this.
This was really awesome.
- Thank you for having me.
It's been a blast.
Thank you, Jack.
(upbeat music)

