
All right, Keith, thanks so much for doing this.
I appreciate you making time.
Pleasure to be with you.
I know you're busy.
I know there's a lot of flying going on, and I'm committed to talking fast to keep up
with you during this podcast.
Ask the questions as slowly as you like.
I will.
Very fast, though.
Okay, so the first thing I want to talk to you about is the whole idea of investing
in outliers.
And I saw you recently talk about something that resonated with me where you're like,
you know, the top 15 basis points of people.
Those are the founders that like make the companies that matter both to the world, probably also
like to venture returns.
The question I have is how do you marry that with being like a very early stage pre-product
market fit investor?
And maybe to put a little bit more context around it, we all kind of know what like great looks
like when you meet like a fully developed founder, like the Colosins or Brian Chesky,
like today, like I think anybody could walk into the room with them and be like, this
person's amazing.
But you operate for the most part at the very early stages.
And so just talk to me about like what makes great, like how do you know what great is
at those early stages, like what's inside your brain is you're like saying that, talking
about pre-product market fit investing.
Well, the reason why I think it's wonderful to be a pre-product market investor is very
few people can do it.
So like as you point out, as companies grow up as founders mature, many, many investors
can figure out these people are excellent, this company is excellent, the P&L's amazing,
et cetera.
So in venture, the returns are mediocre across the venture industry.
So the only way to produce great returns that are impressive to LP is is you have to have
an alpha, you have to have a comparative advantage, competitive advantage of some sort.
And so mine is to find founders when they have nothing but a keynote deck, because there
is nothing else for people to go on.
There's no other, there's not maybe even a product, they came and looked at the product.
There's almost really not product metrics and absolutely not financial metrics.
So I think this is the most amazing thing for me because what other investors do, except
throw up their hands and kind of barf, so you want to compete, like, you know, kind of
a pewter-tillism, compete where there's no competition, truthfully, there's virtually
no competition on a keynote deck in founders for undiscovered founders.
Once you've created, you know, an exponent dollar company, you're going to start your
next company?
Sure.
There's competition.
You're going to start with a company.
I'm sure there'll be competition to invest in around, but you're talking about people starting
their first company from scratch, and they just have a keynote deck and a co-founder,
that's awesome because almost nobody else wants to do what I do.
So then the question is, can you do it well?
Like it's kind of that you have to be contrarian to write.
And that's just bad on people, like, but you also have to be right, you know, a reasonable
fraction in an early stage, I've asked to call it 40%.
40% is pretty much Hall of Fame, you know, Ted Williams kind of stuff, if you can be
that accurate.
So then the question is, what are you looking for?
And to me, the best I can describe it is every founder that really succeeds has a superpower.
And that superpower is something like during the top one to 10 basis points in the world
on some trait.
So they're the most tenacious person you've ever met in your life.
They're the most disciplined person you've ever met.
They're the smartest person, they're the greatest salesperson.
It can be anyone, but they have to have a trait.
And it has to match the company.
It ideally matches the company.
If you can match it to the company, then it's like, so set up for success.
That's like, please take my money right now, you know, do not pass, go don't, don't even
my partners, here's the tech.
If it's just the trait without necessarily directly matching the company, it's still
probably a pretty good investment actually, it's like how many dollars at what price?
But if it absolutely matches 100%, like lean in, lean in, lean in.
The other possible alternative is a Venn diagram overlap that you never see.
And I'll give you a couple examples, two traits that don't usually go together in people.
So I remember when I first started working with Max Lovechin in late 2000, Reed Hoffman
said to me to prepare me for my first one on one meeting with Max, that Max is a world
class technologist and a world class strategy, business strategist.
And he's like, there's five of those people who are less than all of Silicon Valley.
And this is amazing.
This is December of 2000.
So before Max is famous, before PayPal was successful, we were a complete mess, but Reed
exactly nailed Max's combination of superpowers is those two traits don't go together.
Jack Dorsey, another very successful founder, Jack actually can do three.
He's actually a pretty good technologist.
He's a world class design and has world class design taste.
And he's a very strong business strategist.
So that you marry three traits that don't go together.
That's another reason to invest.
But those are the only two in my experience is like, you have to have that.
If you think about it, it's even globalize this.
It's not about founders.
It's about anybody who succeeds in a competitive industry.
You're a professional athlete.
You want to be the best NBA player of all time.
You almost surely have some abilities, some traits, some body composition that's very
different.
Or you want to be a world class DJ.
There's a reason why or in politics, there's a reason why Donald Trump has been elected
president of the United States twice, despite a lot of people hating him, because he has
superpowers.
You can actually, I've spent the last couple of years trying to isolate his superpowers,
because I was like, I want to understand like, why does he keep winning despite the
world?
So I think there's two.
One is he understands marketing, and that's easy to say, but very rare, and I'll give
you an illustration, a very specific illustration.
Trump actually cares about what his supporters look like.
Now, that sounds crazy.
If you think about politics, you're like, why do I care what my supporters look like?
But then if you turn, turn both our brains on our marketing, we're going to cut a commercial
for any one of our companies.
If Nike was going to cut a commercial for some new product, would they care what the
athletes in the commercial look like?
Of course they would.
Yep.
So Trump has instincts about what central casting looks like and how that becomes aspirational
for other people.
And he just applies that to politics and no other politician I've ever met has been that
strong and that instinctive and it pays dividends.
Is this instinct certain?
Do you think he could articulate?
No, he could articulate.
Okay.
When he first met me, he was very specific about, oh, you need to, you know, you look
great.
Do this, this, any more supporters that look like you.
But when you think about it, like, of course, if we were launching a consumer product, that's
the first thing we would think, like if we were going to have a product hero shot, like
let's say I was promoting this sweater and I was like promoting my Jack Archer brand pants.
Of course, I would care.
What's the model?
What ages the model, you know, even sometimes nationality and race, like all these things
go into any marketing campaign that any company in Silicon Valley uses.
He just applies to politics.
The second thing, and this explains some of his partnership with Elon, is he just asked
a lot of why questions, why, why, why, and most people in politics don't.
There's a consensus in politics that this is the way you do things.
This is the way you set a budget.
This is the way you do it.
And he just doesn't accept that.
So he like keeps probing like, why, well, why do we have this deal?
You know, why do we pay this money to these people?
Why, why, why, why, why, and usually the answers aren't that great.
That's like a key hallmark of like a beginner's mind, I feel like, because the people who
just keep asking.
And they ask it six times.
So what makes Elon exceptional is it's not the one or two levels of why.
It's like, why, why, why, why, why, and so you get deep to the quote, unquote medal.
And usually as you do, you find out that there's some mistakes or some things that can be better.
And not always.
Sometimes there's our Darwinistic evolution of really good ideas and their sound, but
I bet you in politics, that's less than half the time.
And so what Trump's very good at is in this unsettling to a lot of people who've made
their career in politics is unsettling the people who've built this consensus.
And as he probes, he's like, you know what, this makes no sense.
And then then of course you have to find a better solution and he was, you know, been
phenomenal over 25, 30 years at finding better solutions.
But the first thing is to find out what's wrong, what's broken, what can be better, and
why, and then try to build the solution.
It's sort of interesting because I always felt like during lattice, I was like, it's
weird how we're like pretty mechanical and we try to really inspect all these other things.
But when it comes to hiring, it's just like people take this past like, I like the guy,
you know, this felt good.
And I think the same is true in venture where people are like, this founder's spiky, you
know, like I liked their vibe, like I feel good about them.
And it's sort of like, most people think they're a better than average driver.
I would think most people think they're a better than average picker of people.
And like, not much worse.
Right.
Yeah, we're much worse.
Your brother happens to be really good at it, right?
But there's very few people I actually think about, I've thought about, you know, I've been
in venture and attack, I guess, combined for 25 years now.
And so I've met a lot of people because we've, I start, when I started my career, a lot
of people who built Silicon Valley, we're kind of at the end of their career.
So I have like a long, you know, perspective of like 50 years combined of like people
at the end of their career.
And now through the people in the beginning of theirs, I can count on like one hand, the
number of people who consistently can identify founder talent from the very beginning.
Yep.
And your brother's one of them.
He definitely is.
And I feel like, well, and you, you are too.
I mean, you've done it many times.
And I feel like so often the lack of willingness or ability to get specific with understanding
this thing that is like sort of like the center of the venture craft.
And it's just like, I'm going to go off my feelings.
And so I guess one of the things I'm trying to learn as I like start now doing this, you
know, more and more professionally, obviously, is how do you go from this feels good?
I'm trusting my instincts to being really excellent at it.
You kind of talked about like, are they really world-class and excellent at something?
But maybe to like make it concrete, you and Vinod, obviously, of both, you know, this is
two people who really know what they're doing on this.
When you guys both meet a founder and, you know, you're trying to decide if this person
was good or great.
Like, what is some of the language you use to sort of like, what is your discussion?
Like, how do you talk about, is this person 99, 99.5, 99.9, 99.9, like, how do you talk
about that?
Yeah, it's a great question.
Because Vinod is actually two things.
And one of the reasons why he's been so extraordinary.
He's a technology investor and the people, founder investor.
And that's rare.
So he understands the implications of new technologies better than most.
And so he can make technology driven investments too.
I can't do that.
I don't wake up in the morning and read about some new technology and say, Oh my God, we're
fine.
So you don't even try that.
No, no, because there's so many people that are better than me at seeing a new technology
and figuring out all the implications do it.
There's people like, I'd say Vinod is extraordinary at that.
Some of like Mark Andreessen's probably pretty good at that.
That can be a great way to be an investor.
If you're better than other people, an understanding technology breakthroughs and what the implications
are.
Can't one more quick answer yet.
Do you need to be afraid of not understanding a market then?
Or are you just like, I'm just going to be horse blenders if this person's amazing.
I don't care what this market is.
I will learn along the way.
I think it's interesting, at least let's divide venture investing into three components.
There's meeting the right people, sourcing sort of thing.
There's definitely the assessment of value winning.
There's the winning because some things are competitive, some things aren't actually.
And then there's the, can you increase the probabilities of successfully amplitude success
by being like a consigliary?
I think in areas I know better, I actually can probably help more on the consigliary
piece, like financial services, payments, whatever.
I can probably be more useful to a founder after I start working with them because I've
seen where a lot of bodies are buried.
I've tried a lot of things by hand.
You just mentioned the only thing to help.
You just said by being at consigliary, is there nothing?
Do you think that's basically all that matters from a VC to help a company or do you believe
in some of the other stuff too?
I think for the best founders being at consigliary is like 99% of the value.
So when I pitch a really world-class founder, why take my money for this?
It's me as a partner.
It's like, yeah, I'm going to be someone when everything's a mess who can give you feedback
that occasionally is useful.
And the really best founders actually ask for conceptual frameworks, not answers.
So like, for example, my friend Max Rhodes at Fair will always start the question with
I'm debating X versus Y. Do you have a conceptual framework for navigating that?
And you know, the answer is sometimes yes, or like someone I remember when I first started
working with Patrick Holson in 2013 or so, we would sit down for brunch on a Sunday and
he'd come with a list of five to 10 questions.
And I would go to bed really, really the night before to make sure it's very well rested.
I'd be like in bed by nine o'clock because I knew he was going to only ask the questions
that he was like debating or struggling with because if they're easy answers, he would
have already executed them and they would never reason.
And then if he's going through the five or six, I would start laughing.
And like hysterically, because I'd be like, oh my God, I can't wait to see what's next
because they're increasingly difficult difficulty.
But on the five or six, if I could make his eyes light up twice, it'd be like the most
home run meeting ever because he's like coaching Steph Curry, you know, like Steph Curry knows
what he's doing.
He's very good at what he does.
But a coach can occasionally, you know, like up in a lot of the person to reflect on it.
So I think that's what the real goal is, is to be a good consigliary.
And sometimes I describe it by metaphors, like a cartoon mirror and a haunted house.
So sometimes what you're doing is exaggerating the positives or the negatives and playing
it back because like the forest and trees kind of thing.
So I'm exaggerating what I see and saying, this is really what you want.
I'm sorry to stay in this little eddy of the conversation, but do you think that your
experience is a COO where you did that kind of work with founders was actually more aligned
to being a VC in some ways than being a CEO?
Yes.
I think so.
I think because I never really want to be the visionary and for the most part.
And I'm mostly trying to help someone execute their vision so you don't have this proverbial
conflict.
When I first entered venture, people like had this, you know, kind of concern that people
talk about when successful executives become VCs that they're going to try to control.
And it's like, if you're a COO, you've never really been in control.
You never wanted to be in control.
Like I partnered with someone like Jack Dorsey or I partnered with someone like Reid Hoffman
or part of someone like Knox Levchin or Peter Teal, they had very strong will and very
strong vision.
It's closer to being a board member.
Yes.
It actually is a good project.
You know, I hadn't really double clicked on this, but as you think about hiring for here,
if we do hire xX, I think it's better to possibly better to hire the number two's than the
number one.
Yeah.
Because you don't really want to ever get in the way of a founder's vision, at least
in my view.
Like when I choose to invest in a founder, it's because I believe this person is compelling,
has these traits and will be the CEO forever or, you know, as long as they, their health,
their family, whatever, their obligations will allow for what I want to invest personally.
As a fund, other partners here may invest where they think we're going to change the
CEO at some point.
We do a lot of deep tech investing.
Some of the deep tech emerges from universities.
Not all of those professors want to be a CEO of a large organization forever.
So we do have, you know, a reasonable number of our portfolio companies where we do change
and out of CEO, but that's not for me.
Yeah.
It won't be my investment.
I will not be the cheerleader or the point person for those kind of investments back to
where you started, though, actually, interestingly enough, I've been and I have worked together
as VCs for seven years now, just over seven.
And he was also on my board of square.
Interestingly enough, I don't know if we've ever ever really disagreed about a founder's
ability, maybe shades of grades between like maybe I grade a plus and he'd say a and is
that because you both read at the same at the outset or do you talk it through?
Do you still, even when you're similar, do you talk about it or do we do discuss it?
But it's interesting just generally what happens on like a partner presentation level
is a company will come in, present, and there'll be, you know, the five MDs here plus the
rest of the investment team.
And then after the, you know, founder finishes, we'll discuss like, should we invest, why?
You know, and I have had very different opinions on whether we should invest at what terms
and what price, you know, in which companies, but I can't recall a specific founder where
we didn't have the same reaction, which is really fascinating because like seven years
times partner meetings, 50 weeks a year, hundreds, whereas like I definitely can remember
very specific illustrations with some of my partners, like Samir, who's a very good
ambassador, where David Wyden is a very good ambassador, where we did grade very differently.
And you know, one of us might have been right, the other one might have been right.
But it is really enough.
They didn't I seem to have the same constellation of assessment.
I guess maybe the last thing I'm just would be interested to tease apart is besides this
concept of we got to find the thing in the world class that is there any other, is there
anything else that's happening, concluding at the same read as Vinon?
On the founder level, no, but then we may discuss like the market opportunity, the business
opportunity, the angle, the initial entry point, because like usually inertia is the
worst thing for a startup early stage, right?
The world doesn't like you, doesn't think it needs you.
And you've got to invert that like you remember this in Gladys, like you have to create momentum
from scratch.
And that's the most important thing by an older magnitude of founder does is invert inertia
literally a physical sense, like the world, you know, the rest stays around by the rest
stays around.
You've got to create the momentum and you have limited time, limited energy, capital, people
to do that.
Those kind of discussions, Vinon and I certainly can have different views about like, oh,
this market makes a lot of sense or he may see an angle to enter a market that's better
than what I would do or more insightful or where I'm actually struggling with an answer
or vice versa, or I may believe in this current founder, their approach actually will pay dividends
and he might not see it.
But if you believe in the founder for reasonable size investment, that can still make sense.
So let's say I brought in a founder tomorrow that Vinon thought was stellar, but he thought
the market was stupid or their approach was dumb for $2 million, we would almost show
you still invest for 10 million, we might not, and for 20 million, we almost surely wouldn't.
So it depends on the size of investment, how much you can just go with like the founders
right, they're great, they're going to figure this out versus like there's line of sight
to something that seems interesting.
I want to talk about decision making now sort of more generally, which are like, you know,
on some level like a VC firm is sort of just like it, you know, the whole product is decision
making on some level, you know, at founder's fund, I've seen people talk about how, you
know, decisions kind of often will get bubbled up from junior people or how you have to like
have $1 million to our check of $5 million, et cetera, you know, and whatever it is, there's
a way that decisions happen there, there's, you know, some way it happens at CoSLA, first
I'm curious about like, you know, if you could talk about a little bit of those differences,
but then maybe at a more fundamental level, like how important is the way venture funds
make decision?
Like, is that a very important part of, you know, a venture capital firms activities,
or is it just sort of like an auxiliary thing, but it's not really like the main show?
Well, I think the biggest difference between like, let's call it sales is, you know, sales
to some extent, you want all your customers, right, like in a target market, you know,
as many customers as possible, assessing or decision making and venture is the key ingredient
for, for a fund that has a brand, you know, that can win enough good opportunity.
That's one that has like a good deal for over time, just eliminate the sourcing.
Assuming you see a reasonable fraction of the nonstop, then it's about decision.
And then it's like about decision making.
And like, let's put this way.
When I have sleepless nights, they're 90% about work and 10% everything else in my life.
They're mostly about making the wrong call, like I've talked about a few of them publicly
on podcasts where, you know, X versus Y, and then I could lose sleep for a decade.
And you worry more about bad passes?
Well, you try to figure out why, because you don't replicate the mistakes.
Let me give you a chance, but I'll talk about publicly because it is one where rarely I
made a mistake and was able to learn from the mistake and then apply it to a second company.
I've talked about this previously, I had basically assigned term sheet to lead the seed round
for Robin Hood.
And then they came back to me after we had like at least a handshake, maybe a sign term
sheet and said, would you, we want you to join the board.
This is like about my first year as a VC said, I didn't have like as much authority
myself.
So I went back to my partnership and we had a discussion about, you know, should I join
the board?
And the answer was no, internally, which makes sense.
You literally add a VC like KV or any competitor of ours, you can't join the board for every
seed company.
So I went back and said, you know, I can't do this.
I'm sorry.
And they're like, well, we really want to make other choices then because, you know, you
won't be as involved in the world, whether or not good decision.
Anyway, so run up, not a master thing, three years ago, and obviously problems as well.
So all I would have done is mess it up probably.
But in any event, you know, with hindsight, like an insanely good decision, two million
at 20 post or something.
Okay.
So yeah, like, you could lose a lot of time.
We can look it up after that, yeah, in any event, two or three years goes by and my friends
at fair are raising a seed round.
Jeff and Max had worked for me at Square.
You know, they were entering YC, so they were getting some attention.
They obviously set up for me to lead the seed round, but they came back with the same
condition.
You must join the board.
And I'm like, I'm not messing up.
I'm about burned this one before.
So what I did is, and now the statute of limitations has passed, I said, yes, with
that consulting my partners.
I was just like, I'm not going to tell anybody, I'm just going to join the board.
And so it turns out to have been a very wise decision.
And like the rationale for actually not telling my partners was obviously I got burned before,
but like, you know, like I tried to be intellectually honest with my partners here.
That's why we have a great, like relationship and we will all work well together.
And it's based upon trust is Max and Jeff were close friends of mine.
We were soccer buddies before Square or to Square.
I was like, they're going to text me 24 seven whenever they want.
I'm going to meet with them.
So the incremental joining the board for them is like meaningless.
And so I really felt that intellectually, honestly, that, you know, I'm going to meet
Max asks for meeting on Sunday.
I'm going to meet with him on Sunday.
He calls me Monday night at 10 p.m.
I'm definitely going to, you know, talk to him.
So there was no real drag coefficient in terms of effort.
We're typically a board member.
There is more.
So I felt like, you know, I'm just going to do this.
And then of course it's worked out well.
The company's great, you know, very happy and everybody here is very happy.
But it was, it's rare when you could take the very specific lesson and apply it and not
make the same mistake.
But so basically your kind of view is once you get past, you know, a threshold where
relative to your fun size, you see enough, you can win enough decision making really
is like the main thing to get better at.
Oh, yeah.
The two, for example, there's one that we should have done here that's a very well regarded
private company called three to five billion on paper where we had a relationship with
the founder from his prior life.
And we collectively decided not to, not to invest and then we recently, it's about five
years ago, I was here at the time and we were recently talking about how do we miss this
because they came in to present it and for whatever sort of reasons we didn't, we didn't
invest.
So we actually pulled up our partner meeting notes from like 2000, probably 18 and read
them to see like, what did we do wrong?
Why do we miss this?
And you know, so we try to learn from poor decisions if we can.
When you're meeting some of these early stage things, like a lot of times you like, you
know, there on one end of the spectrum, there's what you just described it fair.
Like these are your friends.
You like, you're sure they're good.
There's a lot of other situations where you just like don't have the time where like a
deal is moving quickly.
It like looked pretty good, but you're not 100% sure.
In my head, what I assume is you must have some gradients where you've got some deals
where, you know, whether it's ramp or fair, the day you do it, you're like, I know this
is good.
And then you must have some deals where the day you do it, you're like, I'm actually
like just genuinely not sure.
You know, you mentioned before that like 40% is like a stellar hit, right?
Do you think of your job basically as a function of, I need to do a certain cross section
of these very sure and not so sure things, no matter what?
Or if you had a smaller fund, would you only do the things you were very sure about?
And then you kind of have to like move down the stack as a result of like the situation
you're in like, I think it's a fascinating question.
90% of the best stuff I've ever invested in as an angel, or as you can see, I was dead
sure of.
So I think the implication to that is if the fund were smaller, if you had, if you're
got less money, if you ran $100 million seed fund, I would probably only go for the pretty
damn sure.
So like, for example, when I think lawnsdale has told this story publicly that when they
started Palantir, I was the only person who thought it was a good idea, literally other
than the four co-founders, I was like, this is so smart, like boom, Airbnb, like instantly
grind.
I'll tell you like three minute after his monologue, three minutes in, I was like, this is the
coolest thing since you two.
By the way, that's a good example of a hard one that a lot of really spooky past.
Everybody else, like, just totally wrong.
There were people who thought they were cool, interesting founders like Paul Graham talks
about this publicly, but nobody else thought it was a good idea.
I was like, no, literally this is the coolest thing since YouTube.
And I was like three minutes after, I was like, we need to, we Kevin Hartch, Java and
I need to invest now.
So I knew it right away.
YouTube literally took like less, less than the barbecue where I found out about it.
Like Java, it actually literally walked me into his bedroom to show me every video at
the time.
Literally every video that was uploaded to YouTube.
And I was like, I want to invest right now, like period.
So like usually like I've had that instinct of like, wow, at the time for the really, really
best stuff.
Have you ever gotten shocked by something that you were?
Yeah, okay.
That turned out to be amazing.
Occasionally.
But then obviously didn't think it was that not good because I wouldn't have invested.
Maybe ask differently if you looked at your whole, if every day that you invested, if
you said, okay, put the, the day you wired the money, put this in a quartile for yourself,
do you think that you would accurately predict how good each basket was?
Mostly yes, or at least barbell wise, like the top stuff, yes.
And then would there be some stuff actually, maybe at the tail that would surprise you.
So that would be a little bit interesting to actually study, like actually force the discipline
of ranking one to 10.
Like how good is this on day one?
And then, you know, five to 10 years later, looking out the stuff that really had high
conviction ramp was a very high conviction, instant, like they started projecting their
notes and you know, DAC just notes in like a couple of minutes and I was like in total
sales mode, like instantly, like boom.
Same thing.
I'll tell you a funny story about this company.
Most people don't know, but it's really phenomenal in Europe called Trader Republic.
It's like a better version of Robinhood, but for Europe and it's phenomenally great company.
But I didn't even want to take the media.
I was like Europe, Robinhood for Europe, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah.
So my colleague at Founders Fund, Matias, found this company in Berlin and he was like,
you need to meet them.
And I kept trying to avoid it, like literally, do I really have to do this to really, you
know, kind of thing.
And anyway, we sit down this conference room and Founders Fund in February or March, 2019.
And founder Christian sits over there and three slides in, I was like, Oh my God, this
is the coolest thing ever.
And so I went to rest of the meeting full sales mode, like full like, yeah, you know, I can
help with this and this and this and this and this, I'll connect the dots.
I walk out of the meeting and so I'd only been at Founders Fund for about a month.
If I were on a meeting and like Matias kind of touts me on the shoulder, he's like, what
happened to you?
And I'm like, what do you talk about?
He's like, you didn't even want to take this meeting and like you're in love with this
thing.
I was like, you just found the best founder in the history of Europe.
Wow.
And I knew like three slides in and he will be the best founder in the history of Europe.
Wow.
That's crazy.
Yeah.
Yes.
What was going through my head was connecting back to, you know, as an individual investor,
you have some comparative advantage and you just need to like get yourself into that zone
of genius as often as possible.
And what I was thinking about is like as a fund shape, you also have comparative advantages.
And so like, you know, as we were talking about that, I was thinking, well, it's actually
in some ways a comparative, there's a disadvantage that comes from being large, which is that
like, you know, you just, you've got some constraints.
And so like, you know, that would say maybe to me as a smaller fund manager, I should,
you know, what I would take away from this conversation is just like act when you have
more confidence.
You must have some huge advantages from being like being a big fund too.
I'm curious what you experience is like the comparative advantages, not from you as an
investor, but from CoSLA as an entity in the size.
Let's talk about, I'll give you a really concrete one, which is really to AI, which is very,
you know, important topic.
I am certainly not a master of AI, um, non AI investor per se, since I've come back to
KV, I've made two and a half like significant AI based investments.
And the only reason I had conviction and confidence to pull the trigger on two of them was we
at KV are very expert at AI.
My, I have like these three partners here, you know, AI really called the nodes fan and
john too.
And so what I feel I can do is if I find a founder who's in the AI space, I can run
my normal Keith algorithm through the founder, but I can then get air cover from my technical
colleagues, Vinodes, fan and john who know AI and can ensure that this, this product
is differentiated, that this is the best approach to solving this product space through AI.
And then there's nothing better out there, two of the companies I invested in, I never
would have been able to with high conviction, lead a meaningful round, like I might have
let a seat around, but I definitely would have a series A or B, uh, without, without
john's fan and Vinodes involvement.
So I get the leverage same thing in health, like we, we have some people here really understand
digital pharmaceutical and, you know, actual all versions of healthcare.
And so if I find something interesting in health, I run it by one or two of my colleagues,
and then I can still apply my normal Keith is this founder amazing, but I also know I'm
not making a mistake.
Sean Maguire, when we just did a podcast the other day, just said something that really
resonated with me on this, which was basically the analogy was that, you know, in math or
chess, if you're, you know, 98th percentile, you can't tell the difference between 99 and
99.5.
You can't tell the difference between people above you, but if you're 99.9, you can tell
the difference in people below you.
And I thought that was really interesting.
And this would be the equivalent is like, you would know, like a, you know, in AI, you
might know, like a charlatan from a reasonable person when you see it, but you wouldn't know
world class.
Right.
Exactly.
Very good.
So even when we post investment, one of the areas we do have value at KV on AI companies
is people are building on AI teams here.
Or they need their first meter of a true AI leader to build out, you know, an AI function.
I can't do that.
Like I don't know how to assess like, is this really the right person?
I can look at, you know, some credentials and things like that and then triangulate seems
directly right, directionally gone.
But if this is a really important company for us, I will have either Sven or John or
Vinod interview the candidate and then therefore get the benefits of both because they can
grade 99.9, 99.5, 99, 98 where I can't.
Are you able to use the fun size itself to your advantage to in any cases?
Like, the best example to me right now at the moment is like the way thrive is using
their fun size to advantage in a very effective way.
There's other things where some funds are, you know, not doing these sort of like, we
do premium assets.
And that's the end of the story.
I've seen others using, you know, their fun size to do like new products and offerings
and things like that.
But I'm curious if you experienced that relatively larger fund is an advantage directly.
Yeah.
Think about it at KV where there is a real advantage is because we like to back bold investments,
bold ideas, ambitious founders.
And really early is not all the things we invest in are going to move to consent up being
appreciated by the consensus so you can take it through multiple rounds.
We can take it through multiple rounds in toll.
You want to have an inflection like this is a good Peter Till point is you don't want
to stay contrarian forever to be really successful eventually you need consensus that this is
a good product, good, you know, good thing to adopt, good thing to pay for.
So you want to convert contrarian to consensus and then take advantage of that momentum that
in between step, there may not be investors that really appreciate you and to get, you
know, somewhere down that curve to having a lot of, you know, fair amount of capital.
If we have conviction about the opportunity that better or as good as when we first led,
we have conviction about the founder and the team that is good or better than when we first
made an investment, we can double down and triple down.
Now at some point, we're going to want you to prove that there's a real there there that
the world wants us.
Like eventually you have to get to the world definitely will want this and appreciate it.
And then other people's money is great, but we can definitely do that and we do it frequently.
Which I guess also aligns to you guys doing more sort of hard tech investors.
Yeah, deep tech.
Like the milestones are different.
The milestones that other people not that financial investors can appreciate are going
to be further out, so you need to be able to fund or be able to partner with people that
have the same criteria, which is a skill in and of itself, like knowing who to partner
with to finance a certain type of round.
Totally.
Yeah.
Do you worry just broadly speaking about like the like venture as an ecosystem or asset
class as like things have gotten so that like there's so much money now, you know, when
I was, you know, running lattice during like zerp times, like we had all these crossover
funds.
They kind of went away.
But now it's like now like the sort of blue chip funds are big.
And like there's like, I think like more dollars coming in than out of venture for like a while
now.
Like, are you, do you, does this give you any anxiety?
Do you think this is like a problem or?
Well, it could be a problem.
I think there are, is there a scarce number of founders who have the traits that can build
like on a company?
Founders.
That's as scarce as founders as the scarcity scarcity.
Now what's interesting in AI world is for any given company, they may be more capital
intensive.
So you could say there's still going to be 15 companies and 15 founders at any given
timeframe that have high potential, but the consumption of capital at open AI is off
the charts.
Definitely.
And it doesn't mean it's bad, but if AI companies have that pattern, then a lot of venture
capital can still funnel into the barrels, the proverbial barrels as founders.
Do you think that the like application layer where a lot of this investing is happening
now outside of the models?
Do you think that the, do you think the capital consumption is going to be higher or low?
It should be moderately low.
Yeah.
But it seems like it should be.
And I often will meet these companies that like raise the seed and now they're profitable
and like everything's fine.
But then I'll see a lot of the like the current sort of leading app layer companies have all
actually raised like quite a lot of money.
And so I'm not sure what's going to end up happening because like they will have more
competition from each other.
So I can't quite tell how it's going to play out.
Yeah.
I think at the application layer, it's dangerous to raise too much capital.
I think there's reasons why at the foundation level model innovation or things that are closer
to that infrastructure layer, there's real good reasons like founders walk in and ask
us for 30 to $50 million.
And you know, before AI, we would say, you know, no, and say that's totally unreasonable.
But then the AI founders at the foundation level, like have really good reasons why it's
like, I actually need to spend $30 million or I can't get to this milestone.
And so we definitely have to think about it.
And therefore we have written a lot of those checks in AI.
But then what happens, I think there's a distortion at the application layer is they
read about their call, you know, their competitors or colleagues or whatever, friends running
these AI companies are like, I should get that valuation too.
And so they walk in like, I want $50 million because so and so over here, but they're very
different businesses, even though they both have the label AI on them.
I mean, one of the interesting things that this connects to, you know, we talked about
you need to be contrarian and right, obviously sort of like how money is typically made.
I think there is sort of an unspoken prevailing wisdom right now or prevailing thought right
now, I should say, that we might be in a moment where you can be consensus and right in a
lot of areas.
And a lot of people are behaving as though that's true.
And so like the way that I see that expressed is there's a lot of ideas that make a lot
of sense.
You take AI times, whatever industry times pick a vertical, pick like a department at
a company horizontally, whatever, there should be something in X.
And so I'm going to like bet on one and a lot of people that make the bet, a lot of
companies are now competing for, you know, those verticals.
I think that's part of probably why people end up raising a lot of money is because they're
in this like, you know, 11 horse race for something that seems consensus and right.
Do you think that it's possible to have moments in time where there's a lot of money to be
made in consensus, right things?
Or is that a mirage?
In the history of venture capital, there's usually these three year windows where that's
true.
Like the first three years of the internet, there are windows where that's true, but
over 50, 60 years, that's usually not true.
So then the art is knowing the valuation, your entry price really matters.
So you need to be right, but you also need to get paid correctly for the risk you're
taking on.
And so the problem is if you treat all AI companies like their foundational model companies
or robotics or something, even if you pick a really good company in a vertical, it might
not be a 10 billion or a company.
Yeah, you may not make that much money, like you enter at 400 million, it's a two billion
dollar company.
You know, it's not terrible, but it's not going to return to me.
It's not going to really return to find.
Yeah.
And so you have to be disciplined about the price to, especially series being up, maybe
in A plus or minus, you get it right.
It's probably good enough.
See, definitely make the right call companies epic, you know, it's not going to really matter.
But I do think that the discipline about we'll pay 100 million posts or whatever versus 200
million does matter in the consensus right world.
Is your instinct that we are in one of those three year windows right now?
Like I think the vertical, I think you can apply AI successfully to a lot of verticals.
And you know, whether it's hardcore AI, there's like versions of AI, like how innovative it
is it, but the demand for intelligent acts that replaces human errors or human costs
or human scalability issues, those are the three biggest ones is very real because humans
do make mistakes.
Yeah.
They are expensive and they're hard to scale.
Okay.
I want to go over to tech and the government and politics and sort of like this sort of
new moment and time we're in that I think is extremely interesting.
I would say outside of AI, the other place that has a lot of like heat and excitement
is like deep tech, which is great.
I think a lot of this probably is related to the fact that, you know, tech and the government
are involved some of it, the causality arrow goes both ways here, of course, and as these
companies have gotten more important, the government's taking more notice.
So maybe before we get into some specific questions, tech and the government are like
friends all of a sudden and there's like a relationship now.
What's most surprising to me in some ways is that like that didn't exist over the last
10 years.
It's not like tech with some underdog for the last 10 years.
So I guess what is, why has this shift happened so dramatically?
Like, you know, you could say it's an administration or whatever, but like, why are we in this
situation now where like tech all of a sudden has this like, not just like a voice, but
like a loud voice.
Well, I think there's two reasons.
One of them may be less negative than the other.
The first one is at the end of the day, the Democratic Party in the United States for
the last 15 years, basically as penalized and stigmatized successful people, just read
your average Bernie Sanders speech.
That's the representative voice of the Democrats is if you're successful, you've stolen money
from someone like Robert, Robert, right, he used to be labor secretary, you know, posted
like basically a simplified version of this last week is like basically the only way to
be a billionaire is to steal money from people inside of trading or inherited, which is obviously
completely false.
But that's the prevailing view in the Democratic Party, Paul Graham wrote that essay that was
like how people get rich.
And it's like, that's not how any of you know, of course, like none of the people we none
of the people we know, like literally none of the people we know, like we know came over
here with like $40 like from India, like literally he couldn't afford to eat anything
except McDonald's.
Yeah.
You know, so like that's how people get rich in the United States more often than not in
Europe.
You still have to like follow one of these formulas actually interesting enough.
But in any event, there's a lot of excitement intact because no longer are people who are
building stuff and creating value for the world and transforming the world in positive
directions being demonized.
Demonized.
And so I think that is a very refreshing, you know, change.
And so that's that's positive.
Second thing is like the reality is the tech world was very skewed and biased against, let's
say conservatives and conservative ideas and spending a lot of time money demonizing conservatives
and conservative ideas in Trump particularly.
And so I think a lot of people are on their apology tour like, you know, Mark Zuckerberg
spent $400 million promoting Biden.
Arguably, it was more important in electing Biden than any other person.
Read Hoffman, it's not even public like how much money.
So there's a lot of people who have business interests that you just can't be that one
side in the politics like no fortune 500 company in history has ever been that biased.
Google like 98% I think of all employees gave money to Democrats.
So a lot of this is like, oh, we need to get back to closer to equilibrium because it's
just not going to work out well for us to be so partisan.
So that that dialing back is definitely driving a lot of this too.
So now that the relationship is closer, what's going to like change for tech companies if
I like there's so many of these companies, some of them, the most important companies
we've talked about, but you know, like Andril, SpaceX, OpenAI, like Airbnb to some extent,
like a lot of these most very important companies, like the government matters.
I mean, Uber to like, you know, sometimes it's local state federal, but like kind of
the more important the company is the more the government seems to matter.
Well, what's happened in the last 30, maybe 50 years in the United States is more of
what you do in your life is dictated or constrained by law regulation.
It's just like over the last 100 years, it's hard to do a lot of things.
You know, you're basically suffocated by law and regulation.
So any company needs to navigate that.
And sometimes you're right, it's much more local than federal and sometimes it's much
more federal than local, but you're going to see tech companies having to, you know,
sort of navigate a world that is just more constrained.
And navigating through constraint world actually can be very opportunistic.
One of the reasons why I actually like investing in heavily regulated spaces is having been
a lawyer.
I feel like I can kind of in my own brain do the probabilistic assessment of risk reward
and most other VCs kind of have to outsource it to like some lawyers.
And so I like heavily regulated spaces, but I think the world, it's interesting enough.
I know, you know, you've been talking publicly about having kids and stuff, it's about the
only thing you can do in the United States without like the government's permission is
to have a kid.
Like there's literally almost nothing else you're allowed to do.
It's actually shocking when you have your kids, like it's like, oh, I didn't even need
permission.
In some ways, the situation that we have now with the government is like almost all positive
for tech.
I wonder, are there risks to being this close, like in some ways we were kind of just like
la de dah, we're over here in Silicon Valley or, you know, wherever we are, we're doing
our thing.
The government's just like not thinking about us.
And now it's extremely spotlighted, you know, it's like at the inauguration.
It's like, whoa.
Everybody's there.
Chub's talking about it.
Is this perilous in any way?
Oh, I think it is actually.
I think it's not accidental that, you know, Silicon Valley is about as geographically
distance from DC as possible.
And you know, it's like a feature, not a bug.
Yeah.
So I think innovation and a cleverness and disruptive thought in some contrarian, you
know, ideas are better and more fertile in areas that are not caused by the government
or not.
It's like the government wouldn't know how to regulate like crypto or AI, like in the
nascent days and the closer you are that I would imagine it's like the sooner they're
going to want to be involved with a lot of these things.
And I worry that that kind of regulation early is very stifling.
It's very stifling.
And also, you know, there's things like you study in political science about regulatory
capture and comments can use the government more easily than a startup can.
So if you have a disruptive technology to some incumbent, it's more likely the larger
institutions are going to take advantage of government access to curtail your opportunity.
So it's very, I think it is very dangerous.
A lot of these VC firms now, it's not just like, you know, there's like some like middle
person, like a lot of the VC, it's not like a constrictly area in the middle.
There's like the VC firm now has people in DC that are powerful.
And at the same time, a lot of these, these, you know, same VC firms have gotten very large,
gotten very influential.
Do you think that this leads to these firms transforming or playing a different looking
role or will they still just be VC firms that like have a deep connection to the government
the way that like JP Morgan always has or something like that?
So I think, you know, Goldman Sachs always has like as a classic example and say, I think
maybe VCs or some VCs, you know, adopt that as a differentiation or point of differentiation
or, you know, feature, part of their features, that sort of thing.
We'll see how that plays out.
Because again, I don't know if it's the best thing for early stage companies.
So for example, yes, some like the next enderals where your target customer is the federal government,
like you're by far, then sure, like early investment in politics, politics makes sense.
For most companies, it's probably not great.
So for example, you know, when I'm in DC, people always ask me with it when you think
about DC.
And I actually like DC, I used to live there as a lawyer.
It's one of my favorite US cities, but it's kind of like junk food for me, because the
next early stage, 19 year old, undiscovered talent is not hanging out in DC.
The people that are hanging out in DC, and I talked about a conference recently, is you
run into Mark Zuckerberg or Johnson.
Yeah.
Like that's not useful for me.
It's not useful for me.
It's interesting and fascinating, you know, and like maybe if I want to have an A one day,
like help a company.
But I'm not finding some undiscovered talent like in DC.
So like you can get distracted with this junk food where I have to eat real meals, which
you know, great founders are probably everywhere else.
Yeah, it's funny that like hanging out with Jensen or Zuck would be junk food for you.
But when you say it in that light, I guess it really doesn't help you much.
No, I need to find someone who's never built anything before and has an idea about how
to actually disrupt infinity or matter.
I also feel like there's been this transition where investors have been much more comfortable
speaking about what they think about politics, where they're much more comfortable just sort
of saying what they want to anyway.
Like I feel like there was a, there was like a guardedness, like even 10 years ago when
I was like starting Lattice, I didn't feel like investors were like expressing their
thoughts.
And now I think a lot more investors and firms and people in general are willing online to
just like say what they think kind of fearlessly.
You say what you think kind of fearlessly and like before is cool.
You did before it was cool.
Yeah, totally.
But you definitely still do it now.
You say a lot about politics.
I mean, you definitely were always willing to like, you know, get at it with people online
fearlessly.
And maybe you were talking about politics for a long time.
Not as much.
But I feel like lately you're really willing to like, you don't seem afraid to say what
you think ever.
I think as a VC, it's a little bit easier for one structural reason to remember from
lies.
When you run a large organization, you represent a huge constellation of people.
So I don't think a CEO should really be engaged in politics unless it affects the company.
I'm kind of pretty strict about that, but as a VC, you don't represent a large constellation
of people.
You may only represent yourself or small partnership.
We have four MDs here, you know, four colleagues who are MDs.
So it's a very small, insular group.
So I think it's easier to express your voices.
And then I think the culture has changed though.
You just watch Elon, you know, like, but I think he has the best founder, you know, of
the last hundred years.
I think now it's like not debatable, but like as the most successful founder of the last
hundred years, as he's engaging in, you know, intellectual.
It lets everybody do it.
Mate.
Yeah.
It's such an example.
Like, right, just like Mark Zuckerberg said, it's an example for founders in some ways.
Steve Jobs said an example.
Everybody Brian Chesky sets examples.
I mean, Elon even said an example, not that he's, you know, better or anything like that,
but he's got an example for Zuck in some ways.
It looks like to me.
I think people like, you know, like emulate successful people in your field is a very
common thing.
As a great athlete, you look at like, if you know, if you want to be the next great basketball
player, of course, you'd watch like Michael Jordan or Kobe Bryant, you know, et cetera.
Or if you're, you know, seven foot, you'd watch like Shaq or Patrick viewing and stuff
like that.
So I think it's very normal to emulate people who are successful.
And so as successful founders are more engaged in politics for their own reasons, I think
that does create either, you know, a copycat mentality or a license to engage, but I don't
think typically it's great for a founder of a large organization to be taking views on
issues that do not directly affect their company.
Do you think it helps VCs?
It can.
I mean, I think VC is an interesting because it's a matchmaking exercise, pretty much point
about a consicular area.
Like I am not the right partner for every founder, even internally, like sometimes someone will
come to me.
Like, how been actually a smart, I met a founder.
I think it's a good investment, actually.
I'm not sure I'm the best partner for him, but I think it's a good investment.
So what I'm going to try to do is pair him with a different one of my partners, who I
think would be probably better for him.
And so there's always this matchmaking exercise.
So I think it's fair for founders to know, you know, who are you partnering with?
You're partnering for a very long time, decade, et cetera.
And does this person share either values or an approach to life or way of thinking that's
either complimentary or suitable for me and my company?
And so it does create like an alignment.
There are founders who reach out to me very specifically because of, you know, my views
on certain things and they want to work with me more than other people.
And if they don't, great, there's other partners here, but not included, who have very different
views on sometimes, you know, sometimes publicly that they compare with that might be a better
fit.
I'm actually also on that front.
I'm just like, I'm happy that the language is now just in the ecosystem is very much
back to, and I feel as with founders, but like founders want partners.
And I felt this during that, like, I really valued my board members.
Like I, and I got lucky.
I have very good board members, but I really valued them.
And there was that weird period where it became this sort of like feature to sort of invest
without being a board member and that like companies don't need boards and all that stuff.
And you know, there's some exceptional founders who are like at a point in their career,
were like, yeah, like Parker Conrad can kind of like get away with it because he's, you
know, like people want like building a company is always a roller coaster ride and having
someone who's long for the journey, like just like it's a lonely job being a founder
is very lonely.
Yeah, totally.
You know, the more your friends with and no founders really well, you actually feel that
yeah, I mean, like, I'm very close to a lot of founders I work with.
And I know the very well and I've worked with them for years and sometimes known them for
like someone like Max Lovesham for 20 plus years.
And so you can actually tell their emotional state pretty well.
And so having people that understand what you're going through and occasionally can
give you like feedback, like sometimes actually it's counterintuitive feedback, like when
things are tough, encouragement might be the right answer.
Yeah.
Not criticism.
And then actually the best time to be critical is actually when things are going really well.
So like understanding that dynamic with the founders you work with and board members are
typically really good at that the people who say you can get the proxy for having other
founders you talk to or it's something that is they often lack context, like context about
like how the company's really doing.
Who are these people that you know, this founders working with, you know, what's going right
or wrong in the board member has to have like some level of visibility, sometimes really
good visibility.
So you kind of I can project, you know, sort of your emotional state and why it is what
it is.
But yeah, I mean, I think a lot of times there's, you know, there's a, there's a misconception
that like, oh, once you have a board, you have to be like buttoned up and you have to like
share stuff in these calculated ways and they're going to kind of be a value.
And it's like, it's the opposite, like you can be much more real with your board members
sometimes than with your exact way, your reaction.
Like that's because once you talk to some things about with an exact, I'll help breaks
this.
Yeah.
Like you can't ever show any different exact without like people like suddenly kind of
first off, like moving in a different direction and a really good, a really good board member,
you can have a conversation with, you know, I'm not sure this part of our strategies,
right?
Or this part of the team, or maybe we don't need this.
Maybe we don't need this team, et cetera.
All those conversations are really helpful to have someone to talk to.
Some people are lucky.
They have a great co-founder, but not all founders either have a great, have a co-founder
at all.
Yeah.
Or a great one that's on, you know, same plane.
There's just something structurally nice though about somebody who is in it with you, but
also has like a lot of other things they care about too.
Detachment's useful.
It's like something really dads happening, even with your executive co-founder, it's like,
if you're like, oh my God, this guy is falling.
And then you tell somebody else who's under the same building, they're like, oh no, this
guy is falling on me too.
He's just going to amplify the problem.
It's just amplify.
Right.
Like we're actually, I think this is one of the reasons why I don't always recommend people
pairing with younger investors, because young investors sometimes panic too.
Like right now, like they're closer to being under the same sky.
Well, yeah, they are because they're careers at stake, right?
Like so imagine, imagine one of my companies that we're counting on being successful has
a really severe problem.
Nobody here's going to fire me if something goes wrong.
So when you call me up and say, hey, I've got this really severe problem, what do you
think I should do?
Like I don't react emotionally because I know I'm just like, you're not worried about your
job.
I've been like immediate problem solving mode.
And if you call it, the founders are working, that's like, like immediately, okay, like
what can we do about this?
What are the options?
Which we should we talk to, you know, et cetera, et cetera versus like, oh shit, like my partners
are going to be really mad at me.
And like in defensive mode or self-preservation mode, which is very natural, like I saw this
play out during COVID as an illustration.
I mean, I already had this view just having been an executive and having worked with
people in their own, you know, sort of own career paths, intersection as VCs.
But during COVID, you know, most founders were under severe stress right away.
Like what do I do?
What does it mean?
How long is it going to work?
Like burns out of control.
If you just took the same company with senior partners at the successful in VCs and non-successful
YAT VCs, I think the quality of thinking and the ability to be like a smoothing function,
like a Christian was just highly correlated with how successful is the VC.
Right.
Versus if they were just getting started or if they were unsure, you're okay.
Like I don't want any of my companies to fail and I don't want any of our high profile
companies to suddenly start, you know, underperforming.
But if they do, you'll be okay.
But if I, but if I, but if I do, all I'm going to do is try to figure out like, is there
a solution to this?
Like what can we do about it?
I think this is very important.
I think about like having to communicate on my Monday partner meeting, like, oh my God,
because if actually if I did communicate on my partner meeting and I would, the natural
reaction by my partners here will be like, well, what else can we do to help?
Like, you know, Keith, have you thought about this or that or talked to this person or I
saw this 20 years ago and here's a possible answer versus like, oh, let's, you know, point
fingers at Keith.
There's nothing worse than if you're anxious as a founder, your investor is getting even
more anxious about the same thing as like a nightmare.
You know, and I hate, you know, sometimes on boards with VCs who do it and I'll actually
try to occasionally all run like kind of interference for the founder.
Like I've like, you know, I'll try to, you know, like send, send, send, put it like a
protective envelope around the founder, but sometimes they just ask for like a lot of
data, even that's distracting.
It's like, oh my God, like my partner should ask me all these questions.
It's like, what's going wrong?
I'm like, the last thing you want to do is to shock the founder with a bunch of data requests
when they're trying to solve a problem.
But it's a natural evolution and that said, of course, you know, every VC is a young VC
at some point.
And so this isn't a one size fits all.
But I think you have to be judicious about board members that do amplify your own emotional
state, which is not what you really want.
Maybe a final topic that's, you know, somewhat tangential to this, yourself, you were an operator
for a long time.
Very successful.
You know, obviously, but no, like there's a founder of some micro systems, same at founders
fund like they're rooted around foundership.
So you've built companies as you've been a VC, you know, you've opened or opened store,
you know, the same thing happened with like tri and delegate, like it's like both of these
places, like entrepreneurial investing is like sort of in the DNA, but you've also obviously
worked with a lot of investors who are career investors and you've been on boards with people
who are both types.
Like now that you've been doing this for like more than a decade on lots of companies, many
of which are very important, like what are your reflections about this difference and
how it shows up and I think it's most better, much better if you built things or, you know,
aspired to build things to be a VC.
First of all, you just understand things at a different level, tactically, emotionally,
you just encounter problems and it's pretty native.
Secondly, it gives you credibility to, which is useful, like why should I believe you sort
of, which is important?
So you're right at KV, you know, many people here have built companies and want to build
companies, et cetera.
And we encourage it founders fund, you know, think about the brand, you know, et cetera.
And so I think that's better.
Are there exceptions?
There's not that many.
If I think about like when I'm raising capital for my companies, like the ones I built and
or our highest performing companies are asking for advice on subsequent rounds of financing,
who do I naturally send them to?
It's almost always people who started their career building stuff, like, you know, we
compete, but also our friends with roll off and Alfred, they both, they both had real
jobs.
And they remember like what it's like to have a real job, you know, and so they're on top
of my list often.
And so I think that is pretty critical.
Are there exceptions?
You know, honestly, since 2005, I think there was an error where you could be a professional
finance person, be successful VC, think Fred Wilson, Peter Fenton kind of error.
Since 2005, I can only name I think one good investor who started their career after 2005,
who didn't actually, you know, work as an entrepreneur at some point.
Who's that?
Moon.
Oh, yeah.
Yeah.
When a contractor, it's great.
But I don't know if anybody else that I think is exceptional that started the career
after 2005.
Jeremy Levine will be in the first category.
He was also a great investor.
He did do a startup, but like not like a high profile one.
What do you think for the people and, you know, maybe there would be some set of people
who are eight or 10 or 12 years into their career, who you wouldn't yet say they're
my moon, but you know, if you spend time with them, you'd be like, okay, they could be on
track.
When you think about what makes a moon situation work, how do those people, because there's
like a lot of, you know, I think, well, and, you know, very, very capable people doing
VC and who never sort of built a company or whatever, like, what does it take for those
people to get there?
How does that happen?
Well, I think you need to compare it.
Ultimate venture comes down to, and this is maybe summing up everything we've discussed.
You have to have a comparative advantage, like why me or why us or some combination?
Why take my money or why take our money and use it to mix up like the overall brand and
the individual and to match make exercise too.
So one way or the other, if you're going to be a non founder or non previous executive,
you have to have a really compelling answer to that.
So one of the ways some people saw that include my moon is going after a vertical first.
That's not super popular, like sass and stuff when he did box and stuff, very non consensus.
And so you can create credibility, domain expertise, et cetera.
That way.
So you have a really good why, like, okay, this is why you should partner with me.
Yeah.
And so if you can develop that, that's hard to do and it's almost impossible to do in
hot spaces because of that.
But that's about the only formula I know is you bite off a vertical, you become like
a true expert.
You have success in that vertical has, like, let's say legs, there's a wave there and
you can ride that wave for a long time.
And then you compare that into maybe a broad, you know, investor.
Awesome.
All right.
I'm going to let you go.
Thank you for your time.
(upbeat music)
(upbeat music)

