--- METADATA START ---
Show: The Knowledge Project with Shane Parrish
Episode: #230 Bill Belichick: 8x Super …
Host: Shane Parrish
GUESTS: Bill Belichick 
Guests: Bill Belichick
Source URL: https://podcasts.apple.com/us/podcast/230-bill-belichick-8x-super-bowl-champion-on-winning/id990149481?i=1000710084874
--- METADATA END ---

1
The big thing about preparation and success is the price has to be paid in advance.
2
You have to put in the work before you get any results.
3
But if you can eliminate all those things, then you can actually make progress on being a better football player and winning games.
4
Was there ever a time where you kept a player on the roster who might not have made it from a talent level, but sheer work ethic sort of kept them around not only because they were improving, but because they made everybody else prepare harder?
5
Yeah, absolutely.
6
Let's start with Tom Brady.
7
Welcome to the Knowledge Project.
8
I'm your host, Shane Parrish.
9
In a world where knowledge is power, this podcast is your toolkit for mastering the best of what other people have already figured out.
10
Today's guest is Bill Belichick.
11
Coach Belichick is an eight-time Super Bowl champion who's widely considered the greatest football coach of all time.
12
He is the only head coach in NFL history to win six Super Bowls, all with the New England Patriots.
13
He's currently the head coach of the University of North Carolina football team.
14
And this conversation needs no introduction.
15
This is amazing.
16
I'm so happy to have Coach Belichick on.
17
It's time to listen and learn.
18
When I thought about where to start, I think the place that came to mind was the sign you had in the Patriots facility.
19
And as every employee walked in, they read these four things: do your job, work hard, be attentive, and put the team first.
20
Right.
21
Why did you want everybody in the organization to read that on the way into work?
22
Well, that's really our game plan every day.
23
It didn't matter whether it was a day in the offseason, a day in training camp, or the day before the AOC championship game, or the day of the AOC championship game.
24
Those things never really changed.
25
That we all had a job to do, whatever that happened to be, and every job was important.
26
Every member of the team was important that they do their job well.
27
And being attentive and working hard is really the formula to getting better.
28
That's how you.
29
You figure out what it is you need to do better, and that's by being attentive and listening to people who can instruct you or help you get better, and then putting the work into make that positive change.
30
And always thinking team first.
31
That's always the most important thing.
32
What do we need to do to win?
33
And what can I do to contribute to the winning cause?
34
And so, regardless of what the task was, whether it was a coach, a player, a staff member, really any employee, it kind of fit for all of them.
35
So, and again, because we played and practiced in the same facility, as I said, it didn't matter whether it was the AFC championship game or whether it was a day in March or a day in June.
36
It was the same every day.
37
And so, we strove for that consistency.
38
What does it mean to work hard?
39
There was a term in your book that stuck out to me called eyewash.
40
Working hard, sometimes people can come in and put in their time and check the box.
41
You know, a player can come in, put on his gear, go out, run around, break a sweat, take a shower, and say, Well, I, you know, I practiced today.
42
I, well, but if you don't really accomplish anything, then that really is not working hard.
43
It's actually, we refer to it as a day off.
44
No days off actually means, you know, you come to work and you go to work.
45
You don't come to work, check the box, kill the time, and then leave.
46
You need to be productive while you're there.
47
So, you know, that it's really just a way of saying, Yes, we're going to put in the work, but we need to accomplish the things that we set out to accomplish for that day and then build on those tomorrow.
48
Was there ever a time where you kept a player on the roster who might not have made it from a talent level, but sheer work ethic sort of kept them around, not only because they were improving, but because they made everybody else prepare harder?
49
Yeah, absolutely.
50
Let's start with Tom Brady.
51
Tom Brady was a fourth stream quarterback his rookie year.
52
He had three players ahead of him, and you know, he just worked his way up.
53
No team keeps four quarterbacks at any level, high school, college, the NFL.
54
It's really almost unheard of.
55
And he would be exhibit A.
56
Steve Neal, you know, a guy who never played high school football, never played college football, was a wrestler in college and then became an offensive guard in Starter Force for seven years.
57
Julian Edelman, who played quarterback in college and then became a receiver and a pun returner, two positions that he never played in college in the NFL and became very good at them.
58
So, yeah, absolutely.
59
That work ethic and that day-to-day improvement, when you just stack those days together on top of each other for a sustained period of time, you know, it levels out the talent.
60
Sure, talent's important, but guys with a great work ethic and who really are committed to improving can catch a lot of players with more talent who don't work as hard.
61
Is there an example of a player who just had outrageous talent but didn't work hard at all that sort of ended their career a lot earlier, or they never made it?
62
You know, they got to the big league and then they sort of just faded away.
63
Yeah, sure.
64
I mean, there are lots of them, unfortunately.
65
You know, I referred to one of them in the book that talked about coming in and being a running back and being a combination of two great running backs that were in the Hall of Fame.
66
And, you know, I think he had barely 100 yards in his entire career.
67
So it's, you know, talent into being a productive football player and a great teammate is hard to do.
68
It's not that easy.
69
And talent gets you through high school.
70
It might get you through college.
71
But once you get to the NFL level, that talent, that field levels out.
72
And there are only a few players that have such elite talent that they don't have to work very hard and can stay better than a lot of their competitors.
73
For the other 95%, if they don't stay on it, they're either going to get replaced or in a lot of cases, players that don't trade hard will get injured and their careers will get cut short that way because they don't commit to a good training regimen.
74
Are competitive people competitive everywhere?
75
I think of like you, Michael Jordan, Tom Brady, and you're always competitive in everything you're doing.
76
And I'm wondering if that's a trait of hyper-competitive people or just the ones that reach the pinnacle of success.
77
No, I think it transcends everything.
78
It's unbelievable how competitive guys are literally over nothing.
79
I mean, it could be for a t-shirt.
80
There's guys making millions of dollars and it's for a t-shirt or not having to run a couple sprints or an hour later on curfew.
81
They'll compete and honestly, it isn't even necessarily for the prize at the end.
82
It's just to be able to say, you know, I won.
83
I competed and I beat you today.
84
Or even if they don't win, just the love of the competition, the love of the prize and fighting for that, the pride to say, hey, you know, we would have a lot of team competitive events, like, for example, or know your teammate and ask questions about different teammates of, you know, maybe what position they played at high school, or maybe another sport they play, or you know, some other random fact about teammates and play offense against defense or the wide receivers against the DBs or the O-line against the D-line and the rookies against the veterans and create different competitions and whether it was free throw shooting or cornhole or trivia or you know all different things like that.
85
Guys that like to compete love to compete and it was a lot of fun actually to move some of the targets around for the competition.
86
You know, some guys are good at free throws, some guys are good at trivia, some guys are good at closest to the whole golf shots, you know, whatever it is.
87
But it's just fun to see them compete.
88
One of the best things we did, Shane, was we would have usually one of our rookie offensive and defensive linemen would compete against each other to catch a punt, right?
89
And so you put an offensive tackle and a defensive tackle back there.
90
And, you know, you go one at a time and the punter would punt.
91
And, you know, we'd make sure that it was at least four seconds hang time so that the ball was up in the air.
92
And then whichever guy caught it first, then that group would win and the other group would have to do extra sprints or the group that won would get out a bed check or whatever it was.
93
But it was a good way of team building because all the players were rooting for their guy who had never caught a punt in his life, probably, right?
94
You know, watching Vince Wilfork and Matt Light back there catching punts, you know, trying to track the ball.
95
You know, had to deal with that.
96
But, you know, to watch those guys do something they hadn't done before for some type of reward was, you know, it was a great team building exercise.
97
And they, but they do, they love to compete.
98
Competitors are the guys that really love to compete, you know, are honestly the guys that get the most out of their talent, you know, because they just are determined to work hard, prepare, and go right to the very end.
99
They might not be as talented as somebody else, but they play and compete, you know, to the max.
100
You mentioned the last dance in your book.
101
What was your reaction to watching that?
102
I mean, I thought it was awesome.
103
And, you know, Jordan's one of the greatest competitors in any sport ever.
104
And, you know, just, you know, his competitive spirit is, you know, up there with the guys that he played with, like Lawrence Taylor at North Carolina.
105
Those guys, they still compete all the time on the golf course.
106
So I thought it was, you know, a great insight into it.
107
You know, Brady's a tremendous competitor.
108
Julian Edelman, Bruski, you talked about Bruski came back from stroke and continued to play.
109
You know, some of those guys, Rodney Harrison, it's just, it's, it's at an elite level, which it should be in the National Football League, but it's just at an elite level.
110
I think one thing that surprised a lot of people when I talked to friends who maybe casually follow the sports, it was how much, you know, Jordan's teammates had maybe a not-love relationship with him always.
111
And do you think that's true?
112
You know, I wasn't around him enough to comment about that.
113
But I think if you don't really like to compete, that a top competitor will kind of wear you down and kind of I don't want to say resist to it, but you know, just to resist and compete at that level.
114
So I have seen that from time to time.
115
But the guys that really love to compete love to compete and they just join in there and compete with them.
116
One of the things you said in the book is you cannot win until you keep from losing, which reminds me of inversion from Charlie Munger.
117
What does that mean in a football context?
118
Oh, boy.
119
Where do we start?
120
Anything that prevents you from achieving your best, that you control.
121
So it's not the opponent.
122
It's something that happens internally.
123
Examples would be guys getting suspended for performance-enhancing drugs or guys that wouldn't hydrate and would pull muscle, pull a hamstring, pull a grind, pull calf because they weren't fully hydrated.
124
Those aren't, that's not Buffalo.
125
That's not the Jets.
126
That's us.
127
That's us.
128
And in the game, I'd say two of the biggest examples, well, there's a lot of them, but let's start with penalties.
129
Pre-snap penalties.
130
So penalties that happen before the ball snap.
131
Those are our fault.
132
And you can't blame them on the other team.
133
False start, illegal motion, too many men on the field, delay a game, like all that.
134
That's our inefficiency.
135
That's not our opponents.
136
And really, for the most part, post-whistle penalties, plays that happen after the whistle has blown, hitting a guy out of bounds, taunting, illegal celebration, you know, stuff like that, where you just get carried away emotionally in the moment and cost your team.
137
You know, personal fouls, roughing a pass or roughing a punter, stuff like that.
138
that really happens after the play is over.
139
Those are examples of beating yourself.
140
You know, you can't win until you keep from losing.
141
Those plays aren't because of what the opponent did.
142
Those plays are because of either our lack of concentration, communication, discipline, whatever it happened to be.
143
And I'm not just putting it on the players.
144
I'll put it on the coaches too.
145
You know, that's our responsibility to eliminate those.
146
And other things, turnovers, for example, when the offense turns the ball over and the defense doesn't make a good play, it's just the offense fumbling a snap, fumbling a handoff.
147
The ball goes off the receiver's hands, pops up in the air, and the defense intercepts it.
148
Plays like that that don't have anything to do really with good defense.
149
The offense just gives the ball away, you know, snap the ball over the guy's head, the quarterback's head, snap it over the punter's head, drop the snap, stuff like that.
150
Just plays that are poorly executed by us.
151
So as you can see, it's a long list, Shane.
152
Some of them are off the field, and some of them, you know, some of them are on the field.
153
You know, in college football would be, you know, being academically ineligible.
154
I mean, that's, you know, that's not your opponent's fault.
155
That's, you know, that's, that's a lack of commitment and, you know, doing the required academic work to be eligible to play.
156
So those would all be examples of you can't win until you keep from losing.
157
If you can eliminate all those things, then you can actually make progress on being a better football player and winning games.
158
Most people think the key to a successful business is the product.
159
But often the real secret is what's behind the product.
160
That's why millions of businesses, from household names to independent creators, trust Shopify.
161
I'm not exaggerating about how much I love these guys.
162
I'm actually recording this ad in their office building right now.
163
Shopify powers the number one checkout on the planet.
164
It's simple, it's fast, and with Shop Pay, it can boost conversion rates up to 50%.
165
I can check out in seconds.
166
No typing in details, no friction.
167
It's fast, secure, and helps businesses convert more sales.
168
That means fewer abandoned carts and more customers following through.
169
If you're serious about growth, your commerce platform has to work everywhere your customers are: online, in-store, on social, and wherever attention lives.
170
The best businesses sell more and they sell with Shopify.
171
Upgrade your business and get the same checkout I use.
172
Sign up for your $1 per month trial at shopify.com/slash knowledge project.
173
All lowercase, go to shopify.com/slash knowledge project to upgrade your selling today.
174
Shopify.com/slash knowledge project.
175
There used to be days I'd open my inbox and feel buried, like I was digging through noise just to find the signal.
176
Important messages got lost, my focus slipped, and I started feeling like I was managing email more than running my business.
177
As someone who values productivity above almost anything else, that just wasn't sustainable.
178
Since I've switched to NotionMail, everything's changed.
179
NotionMail is the inbox that thinks like you.
180
It's automated, personalized, and flexible to finally work the way that you work.
181
With AI that learns what matters to you, it can organize your inbox, label messages, draft replies, and even schedule meetings.
182
No manual sorting required.
183
Now the emails that matter rise to the top.
184
I write faster with content blocks and AI prompts that polish or draft replies in seconds.
185
And it integrates seamlessly with my Notion workspace, so I have bulk context right where I need it.
186
Plus, Notion is trusted by over half of Fortune 500 companies.
187
If those are the people that you're looking to compete with, start upgrading for free to Notion Mail.
188
Get NotionMail for free right now at Notion.com slash KnowledgeProject and try the inbox that thinks like you.
189
That's all lowercase letters.
190
Notion.com slash knowledge project to get NotionMail for free right now.
191
When you use our link, you're supporting our show too.
192
Notion.com/slash knowledge project.
193
I remember reading something a while ago about the difference between being beaten and losing.
194
And it sounds like what you're saying there is kind of hinting at that.
195
Yeah, absolutely.
196
You know, we've always said more games are lost than won in the National Football League.
197
And when I say lost, I'm saying those type of things, missed opportunities, missed assignments, poor clock management, just fumbling the situation more than the other team, you know, really, really playing well to win.
198
A lot of times, if you just kind of get out of the way and let the other team make a mistake, they'll make one and you can capitalize on it and take advantage.
199
And not all the time.
200
Again, as you go deeper into the season and play better teams and playoffs and things like that, that happens less frequently.
201
But in a lot of closed games, when you go back and really look at the way the game, the outcome of the game was, the team that lost really probably should have won or had many good.
202
And more than, like I said, the winning team going out there and making all these spectacular plays.
203
So again, the big thing is, you know, number one, keep from losing.
204
And number two, make the plays you're supposed to make.
205
I mean, sure, there's some great plays out there, but before we get to the great plays, let's just make the plays that you're supposed to make, just the regular ones, the normal ones.
206
And that's execution, concentration, and discipline to do it all the time.
207
You tell your players to focus on the drawer to help them focus on what matters.
208
What is the drawer and how does it help?
209
The drawer was a saying that we used to, especially at the end of the year, like as you get into the holidays, Thanksgiving, Christmas, New Year's, and then the playoffs, you know, the end of the season is in sight.
210
And wherever you are, you know, you've put in all the work back into the spring, training camp, you know, 10, 12, 14 regular season games, whatever it is.
211
And now you're really coming down the home stretch.
212
And the drawer was just a way of saying, unless it's a family or personal thing that's really important, put it in the drawer dealing with it after the season.
213
You know, do you need to go to sign these cards at the mall?
214
Do you need to go look for a new electronic, whatever it is?
215
Can you put those things aside and just finish the season, spend that time on preparation for our opponent, spend that time on, you know, rest, recovery, training?
216
So you're your absolute best when we really need you here in these last few stretch weeks.
217
And, you're done.
218
And if you win, you get to play another week.
219
So when you get into that scenario, put it off until next week.
220
And if you're in it next week, put it off until the week after that.
221
But this is what we've worked all year for.
222
Put those things in the drawer and then open the drawer when the season's over.
223
Now, we would joke about it.
224
And, you know, guys would say, hey, coach, you know, my drawer is getting pretty full here.
225
So, you know what?
226
Maybe you need a bigger drawer or maybe you need two drawers.
227
But the idea was to put those things on the back burner and focus on the very special opportunity that we had in front of us, which was playoffs or championships.
228
One thing that seems to have evolved since you started coaching is that time becomes more fragmented now.
229
Players have cell phones.
230
They have more distractions.
231
I don't have an hour to sit there and do a meeting.
232
I have all these competing things for my attention.
233
How have cell phones changed the locker room culture and made coaching easier or harder?
234
Or technology in that way?
235
Well, first of all, we don't have cell phones and Apple Watches and things like that in our meetings so that they're not part of the meetings.
236
But when the meetings are over, a lot of times the guys race to see what messages and texts and so forth are there.
237
And my thing on that has always been, again, other than family and very personal situations, the guys that are most important to each of us are the guys in that locker room.
238
The guys that you win and lose with and live and die with each day and that you count on them and they count on you.
239
So it was really very important for us to focus on those relationships.
240
And I tried to downplay.
241
I don't even know what those are.
242
But what's more important is what the guy next to you thinks about you and the respect that you guys have for each other and the trust that you have in each other.
243
And that's something that, you know, in a you know, on a football team, you just earn every day.
244
Every day you come to work as a coach, you know, you earn the trust and respect of your players and your other coaches by being prepared, by showing that you're there to help the team and you can help the team win.
245
And again, it's the same thing for every player.
246
And when you earn that every day, you build that trust and you build a cohesive team.
247
And when you don't, you know, those are the players that, again, the other players don't trust as much.
248
Is he going to run the right route?
249
Is he going to be at the right depth?
250
Is he going to block the right guy?
251
Is he going to be in the right gap?
252
And that causes, when you don't know what your teammate's going to do, that causes a lot of hesitation on your part.
253
And you're kind of waiting to see what he's going to do instead of knowing what he's going to do.
254
And then you can aggressively do your job because you're confident of the people beside you.
255
And I learned a lot about that with the, especially with the Navy SEALs, those elite teams.
256
I mean, you know, Blue Angels would be another example.
257
You know, those guys fly 18 inches apart.
258
And, you know, the amount of trust and preparation and teamwork that's involved in something like that, going, you know, 600 miles an hour or seven, whatever it is, is pretty amazing.
259
But, you know, the SEALs, it's the same thing.
260
Like, everybody's got a job to do.
261
And you learn your teammates so well that you can, even in a dark room, you know, pick out his, you know, his silhouette or something about him that identifies him.
262
And, you know, that's obviously that's at the highest level.
263
Football, we're not talking about life and death here, but we are talking about the championship level of performance of having that same type of trust and belief and confidence in your teammates so that you're never questioning what they do and you can be more aggressive in doing your job.
264
And there's never that look over your shoulder of, is he where he's supposed to be?
265
You know, if you know he is, then you can perform better.
266
So those are kind of the, you know, the themes that we try to instill there.
267
I remember talking to a Navy SEAL once, and he said, you know, when things get hard, you're doing it for the person next to you when you want to quit or when you want to give up.
268
Or how much of that is in football too?
269
I think there's definitely a carryover on that.
270
You're playing for the team, but you're playing for the guy beside you too.
271
And especially in a sport like football or in a real kind of battle situation like the SEALs are involved in, you're talking about potentially getting hurt or, you know, or worse in a SEAL situation where that guy beside you, like you have to count on him to do his job and you do yours for the same reason to protect each other.
272
In one of your most famous press conferences, you said Snapface or something.
273
And I literally spit out my water when I heard you say that.
274
I was listening to the, about social media.
275
You're like, snapface or whatever the hell it is.
276
Yeah.
277
Well, I've battled those social media platforms and now I'm actually on one.
278
So college football has kind of changed that a little bit.
279
I mean, I'm not too active on it, but I am on it.
280
And as I said, I think that in a football locker room, the relationships between the players, the team, and the coaches are paramount, more so than people you've never met or seen or heard of before, what their opinions are.
281
And so I always try to encourage our players to not be too consumed with that, but worry about the guy next to you.
282
That's the one that matters the most.
283
How is technology changing the way that players prepare?
284
In the sense of, you know, the story that comes to mind is sort of Jayden Daniels last year using VR to get more reps.
285
Walk me through how technology is changing and where it's really impacting people who are willing to put in the work.
286
Yeah, that system that Jaden Daniels was referring to is one that he used at LSU and then also used with the Commanders last year.
287
It's actually one that we have as well.
288
It's one that's very hard to get.
289
It's only available very selectively.
290
And so I'm pretty familiar with it.
291
And it's an incredible system.
292
It enables you to see the game in a pair of goggles in real life, in real space.
293
And it actually feels like you're getting hit.
294
It feels like you're right in the middle of the game, but you're actually able to see things, what you do, and then you can program in what your opponents do to create a very realistic picture.
295
And then you're also able to adjust the speed so you could actually play the game at, let's call it, 105 or 110% of the actual speed so that theoretically you're having to react even quicker than you would in a real game situation.
296
So, um, I can see you know how that could really help, especially uh for skilled positions uh like quarterback or um um you know positions like like that where you can you you you have to see a lot of things uh very quickly and and identify quickly what you know what decision you're going to make that's true of every position but quarterback especially when you talk about distributing the ball um and and also for a player who's um who's injured um so let's just say that you had a leg injury and you weren't able to to practice uh or run full speed for a couple of days um you could actually see the game through this product and get your recognition and your reads without actually having to run and and you know be involved in a situation uh that physically you're just not you know not ready for um but i'd say a lot of the other technology is just you know things that maybe make it go a little bit faster ways of grouping plays together grouping situations together that you know allow you to to research and and analyze those things a little bit quicker but that's probably about across the board about the same for everybody they all we all have the same opportunity on that i mean ultimately a lot of those situations come down to preparation but also maybe a gut feel of the way the game is going you said in your book the price of success is paid in preparation but you also said it was a way of working what did you mean by that well i think the big thing about preparation and success is is the price has to be paid in advance you have to put in the work before you get any results so there's no way to to honestly know how good your preparation is or isn't.
297
That's why I always try to emphasize keep preparing, keep working.
298
You don't know what the other guy's doing.
299
He might be working just as hard as you are.
300
And that preparation, you know, it can't be after the fact of like, oh, I wish I would have studied more.
301
It's too late at that point.
302
You have to do it on the front end.
303
So getting in condition, you know, studying, preparing on your film and your opponents and all that, like those things all have to be done on the front end.
304
And, you know, a lot of times there's, I would say, a little bit of a tendency to just sort of let up on the preparation.
305
Well, I've watched some film.
306
Well, I've done some extra sprints.
307
Well, I've done this.
308
I've done that.
309
Well, is that enough?
310
You know, is it really enough?
311
And if you do more, will it make a difference?
312
Not to the point of diminishing returns, but to the point of comprehensive preparation.
313
So that's really what we try to emphasize on that.
314
The way that I think about that is sort of the, you know, the pain of losing is sharp, but it's over fairly quickly.
315
But the pain of regret, not putting in the work, not doing the things, you didn't leave it all in the field.
316
That lasts forever.
317
Exactly.
318
That's exactly it.
319
The pain of regret is much more than the pain of preparation.
320
Absolutely.
321
I think you had a 24-hour rule, sort of after winner losses, you have 24 hours to think about it, and then you move on.
322
That's right.
323
Yeah, you play the game, you go back, you analyze it.
324
What do we do well?
325
What do we do poorly?
326
What do we need to do better?
327
What adjustments should we have made?
328
What coaching errors did we make?
329
And so forth.
330
And then you factor all that into, you know, how does that affect us next week?
331
Sometimes there's a lot of carryover.
332
Sometimes the team you play the following week is completely different.
333
And some of those lessons may not really become applicable for a week or two weeks or three weeks until you see a similar type of opponent, say like a scrambling quarterback.
334
Maybe you play two or three weeks where those quarterbacks aren't too mobile.
335
And then when you get up against another scrambling quarterback, you go back and look at how do we need to handle this better against this type of an opponent.
336
So yeah, you look at all those things after 24 hours, win or lose or draw.
337
You take your lessons and you decide how you're going to incorporate any of those things into this week's preparation and practice, what we're going to do differently, or maybe do more of or do less of, whatever it is.
338
And then you're done with that and you move on to your opponent and spend the next five days, six days, whatever it is, of just digging in on that opponent and what they do.
339
Art to me about the relationship between the best talent in the world and you're playing in the NFL, you're coaching in the NFL and confidence.
340
Well, again, it's all relative.
341
Shane, I mean, as good as the players are in the NFL, the guys on the other side of the ball are pretty good, too.
342
And, you know, I'd say every team, generally speaking, every team has about five or six players that are elite, have elite payments, elite contracts.
343
And then you might have some younger players in their first through fourth year, two or three, whatever of those that are elite players that just haven't hit those top contracts.
344
You might have a tackle, I might have a guard, you might have a linebacker, I might have a corner, and so forth.
345
So the way those elite players match up is very specific from game to game.
346
And how you want to match them, your matches against theirs, and how you want to deal with that is, you know, that's a big part of it.
347
I think the confidence thing is really interesting.
348
I think what really separates the great players is their ability to do it even when the bullseye is on their back every week, like it was with Tom Brady, like it was with Lawrence Taylor, like it is with Patrick Mahomes, like it is with players like that, Lamar Jackson and so forth.
349
Every week, the teams are geared towards stopping those players and game planning against them or putting their best guy on them or however they're going to handle them.
350
And for those players to continue to be productive in spite of the game plan attention they get is what truly makes those players great and elite.
351
And I think that when we had Kobe Bryant come in and talk to our team, I think it was around 2018, 19, somewhere in there.
352
And Kobe talked a lot about evolving.
353
And he said, look, when I was 22, 23, I could just get the ball and drive by anybody and score.
354
And he said, I can't do that anymore.
355
I still score, but I found different ways to score, moving without the ball, jump shots, and being better in pick situations and all those kind of things.
356
He said, I found ways to evolve.
357
But there are other things I found that I can actually do better.
358
And I thought that was a great message for all of us to hear: that as we, you know, as we go through our careers, do the things that are working, do the things that you can do well, but also evolve, continue to learn, continue to, you know, find ways to be productive that are maybe a little out of your comfort zone or are not, you know, habitual for you now.
359
But if you can become good at them, they can be great, you know, great tools for you.
360
Are there any other people that you've brought to speak from sort of different sports that sort of had a different message that resonated with you or the team and just stands out in your mind?
361
Oh, yeah, we had a lot of them.
362
Yeah, we had a lot of them.
363
And it was great because, you know, just the guys, you know, they hear a lot of football stories, but it's good to hear all the ones.
364
One of the ones I thought was particularly entertaining, a couple of them.
365
One was Paul Asiante.
366
They won like 14 national championships in a row.
367
They won like 160-some games in a row, matches in a row.
368
I mean, and at the Patriots, we were favored in almost every game, you know, not every game, but most every game for quite a while.
369
And so, you know, I brought Coach Asiante and I said, you know, here's a guy that's won like 13 straight national championships.
370
They won 160-some matches in a row.
371
I mean, he's talking about being favored now.
372
Like, they're favored.
373
And, like, let's listen to what that's really like.
374
And he was great.
375
He talked about it doesn't matter whether you are or aren't or how many you have or haven't won.
376
Every day is an.
377
You just look at today's opportunity and make the most out of it.
378
It was great.
379
So, one of our players sticks his hand up and says, Hey, coach, I have a question.
380
What's squash?
381
I thought it was a vegetable.
382
Jimmy Johnson, you know, we were going into the playoffs, and Jimmy came up and he was doing a story on somebody.
383
And I said, Hey, would you mind talking to teams?
384
So, he said, Yeah, let me tell you a little playoff story here.
385
You know, I was in Dallas, we were getting ready for the playoffs, and we were in a special teams meeting.
386
I'm standing in the back, and I see one of our players back there kind of dozing off and not paying attention.
387
And he said he wasn't a starter, but he played in special teams.
388
And he said, It just really annoyed me.
389
And so, I went over, I flipped on the lights, turned the lights on in the meeting.
390
You know, I went over to him.
391
I said, That's it.
392
You fall asleep in this meeting.
393
We don't want you.
394
This is your primary job.
395
You take your playbook and go see the general manager.
396
You're done.
397
You're cut.
398
And everybody, like, whoa, you know, that woke everybody up.
399
And, you know, it was right before the playoffs.
400
So, you know, any questions?
401
Yeah, coach.
402
What would you have done at that event, Troy Aikman?
403
Jimmy said, Well, I wouldn't have turned on the lights.
404
I probably would have gone over to him and nudged him and said, Hey, Troy, pay attention.
405
And the message was: if you have a lot of pelts on the wall, you might have a little more slack.
406
If you don't have a lot of pelts on the wall, you don't have any room.
407
You don't have any room.
408
You can't live on what you've done because you haven't done enough you better know where you are and until if you're Troy Aikman and Tom Brady you you go but he goes those guys would never do that anyway but you that you might be able to survive that but if you if you don't have that kind of resume you haven't had that kind of production for this team so you nobody wants that you're replaceable they'll find somebody else who will stay awake in the meetings and who will be more attentive and uh it's pretty funny i'd just nudge them and say hey pay attention i think a lot about systems how to build them optimize them and make them more efficient but efficiency isn't just about productivity it's also about security you wouldn't leave your front door unlocked but most people leave their online activity wide open for anyone to see whether it's advertisers tracking you your internet provider throttling your speed or hackers looking for weak points that's why i use nordvpn nord vpn protects everything i do online it encrypts my internet traffic so no one not even my isp can see what i'm browsing shopping for or working on and because it's the fastest vpn in the world i don't have to trade security for speed whether i'm researching sending files or streaming there's zero lag or buffering but one of my favorite features the ability to switch my virtual location it means i can get better deals on flights hotels and subscriptions just by connecting to a different country and when i'm traveling i can access all my usual streaming services as if i were at home plus threat protection pro blocks ads malicious links before they become a problem and nord's dark web monitor alerts me if my credentials ever get leaked online it's a premium cybersecurity for the price of a cup of coffee per month.
409
Plus, it's easy to use.
410
With one click, you're connected and protected.
411
To get the best discount off your NordVPM plan, go to nordvpm.com/slash knowledge project.
412
Our link will also give you four extra months on the two-year plan.
413
There's no risk with Nord's 30-day money-back guarantee.
414
The link is in the podcast episode description box.
415
Most of us are overpaying for phone service without even realizing it.
416
Why?
417
Because from everything I've seen, Mint Mobile offers the value most people overlook.
418
Premium phone plans for just $15 a month on the nation's largest 5G network.
419
All plans come with high-speed data and unlimited talk and text.
420
Most people stick with their provider out of habit, but if you looked at your monthly phone bill the way you'd look at any other recurring expense, you'd probably switch.
421
With Mint, you can keep your existing phone, your number, your contacts, and cut your monthly costs to a fraction of what the major carriers charge.
422
No contracts, no hidden fees, just smarter service.
423
This year, skip breaking a sweat and breaking the bank.
424
Get your summer savings and shop premium wireless plans at mintmobile.com/slash knowledge project.
425
That's mintmobile.com/slash knowledge project.
426
Upfront payment of $45 for three months, 5 gigabit plan required, equivalent to $15 a month.
427
New customer offer for the first three months only, then full price plan options available.
428
Taxes and fees extra.
429
See Mint Mobile for details.
430
Did you treat everybody the same?
431
I remember one story, and maybe it's just sort of the press doing the press thing, but where you sent Darrell Rivas home from practice because he was like two minutes late or something.
432
And honestly, those are tough ones, you know, Shane, because when you send a player home, it hurts the team.
433
It doesn't just hurt the player.
434
It hurts the team because, you know, you need the timing and the communication and the teamwork out there.
435
But I try to treat them all the same.
436
But I do think Jimmy Johnson, I believe that.
437
And Coach Parcels, you know, same thing.
438
He did the same thing.
439
There were certain players got a little more grace than others based on, you know, what they had done for us.
440
And they, I would say, kind of earned that.
441
So I tried not to do that, but there were times when, you know, when I did, but I tried to treat everybody the same, even though they're not all the same.
442
But you certainly want everybody to feel that, you know, we're all team members and it's not, you know, we don't have an elite society here.
443
We have different ranks and certain players can do some things and other players couldn't.
444
So I try to make it as consistent as possible, but at the same time, I think you have to be flexible in a professional football environment for some latitude and maybe for some skull exceptions to your rules.
445
You sent one player home from the Super Bowl for having somebody in his hotel room.
446
Was that a hard decision or was that a how did you make that?
447
Was that team first and you violated the rules, you're out?
448
You know, I made it very clear before we went down there that, you know, it was a business trip and yeah, we had a great year and we were all celebrating the Super Bowl and what we had accomplished to get there.
449
But here are the rules and you don't have to break the rules.
450
And at the Super Bowl in particular, there's a good reason for that.
451
You know, with Super Bowl tickets and guys with valuables and stuff like that, if it's not one of our players on the floor, I don't know whether that person is a friend of our players or an intruder.
452
There's really no way to know.
453
And no matter what, you know, I mean, unless I knew the person for some reason.
454
But you know what I mean?
455
You just don't know who that person is.
456
So our policy was players only on the floor, period.
457
That's it.
458
And so, you know, it was unfortunate because I wasn't trying to say, hey, you can't have guests or you can't, you know, be with your friends or your companions or anything.
459
That wasn't it.
460
It's just, don't do it on that floor.
461
Do it somewhere else.
462
I don't care.
463
And again, I was trying to protect the players by not having people on our floor that we didn't know that could roam in and out of rooms or could, you know, and if you don't remove those people, then you end up with, you know, potentially somebody leaves their room, then that person walks in, and then you have a big mess on your hands.
464
So that was our policy, not just in that game, but everywhere.
465
But unfortunately, because that game was, you know, we were there for five days, I just felt like it was a blatant violation of our rule.
466
I want to come back to confidence for a sec.
467
One of the follow-ups I meant to ask: was there ever a moment where you had your confidence shaken, and how did you handle that?
468
Oh, plenty of times.
469
I mean, honestly, Shane, there were times when, you know, I wasn't sure if we were going to win another game the entire year.
470
You know, but sometimes you just see problems and maybe you want to fix them, but you just don't have the resources to fix them, or you've tried a couple different things and it still isn't really the way you want it.
471
And you can see in the future some real problems coming up with your opponents and some matchups and whatever the case might be.
472
And you're like, I mean, I don't know.
473
Like, I mean, I'm trying to fix this, but I just don't feel very confident that we actually are going to be able to handle it the way we need to.
474
And ultimately, you know, in most cases, it wasn't maybe as bad as what I thought it might be.
475
I was expecting the worst, and that usually didn't happen.
476
So that's a good thing.
477
But, yeah, I don't know if that's a lack of confidence or what the exact word is, but yeah, you definitely have those apprehensions.
478
And certainly opening day is a difficult day because you don't know very much about your team.
479
You don't really know very much about your opponent's team.
480
And unless you have a really veteran team, you don't know exactly how the team is going to react in certain situations, particularly tough and critical and competitive situations.
481
So, you know, even though you have a good team, how are they going to react when you're really in a really tight ball game?
482
And that's something that you don't know until you've been in a few.
483
Unless you've been in a few with those guys and it's the same guys.
484
When you first started in the NFL, you worked for nothing.
485
You worked part-time for nothing, and then you.
486
And I think of this as like a taste for saltwater.
487
You do the hard things, but you were snapping the football, but you were like, oh, the benefit was I got to listen to the coach talk to the QB.
488
And walk me through like how that's changed today and what people miss when they hyper-specialize.
489
Well, I think one thing that I see with some of our younger staff members, coaches, and things like that is they're very concerned about their title.
490
Can I get this title?
491
Can I get that title?
492
And the coaches of, you know, can I be the run game coordinator?
493
Can I be the Blitz coordinator?
494
Can I be the zone coverage coordinator?
495
Can I be the, I mean, it's like, what are those titles for?
496
Like, they don't impress me.
497
I know what your job is.
498
I mean, do you need that title to, you know, validate what you're doing?
499
Or is it for somebody else?
500
And I'm not really interested in helping somebody else.
501
I mean, we, we all know what we do here.
502
I mean, honestly, I was a general manager for almost 30 years of my NFL career, and I never had a general manager title.
503
And that was never important to me.
504
I doesn't care about what the title is.
505
You just, you do the job that you have to do.
506
So I see that.
507
But for me, when I look back at it retrospectively, Shane, the big thing was I was so low on the totem pole that I did all the jobs at the very bottom of the organization.
508
I shot film.
509
I lined the fields.
510
I moved equipment out there.
511
I ran off Xerox copies.
512
I, you know, made notebooks.
513
I sharpened pencils.
514
I did all those things.
515
And as you move up in the organization, it really helped me because I understood how everything functioned, you know, at the, you know, at the level of, you know, making things work, you know, deliveries and, you know, mail and stuff like that.
516
I mean, all those things that needed to happen.
517
I understood kind of the process of it, how it worked, and what was hard about those jobs and what wasn't hard about those jobs.
518
And as I, you know, gained more responsibility in the organization, I was always able to show appreciation for the people that were doing those.
519
Like, hey, I know this is really hard.
520
Or hey, I know this is a tough week.
521
I could sense what you're going through.
522
And I think that built some camaraderie and trust there.
523
But also, it helped me understand how everything worked.
524
And there were multiple times when people would come to me and say, oh, coach, we can't do this.
525
You know, we can't do this.
526
We can't do that.
527
And I'd say, wait a minute, I've done that job before.
528
We can do that.
529
Here's how you do it.
530
This is how you make this work.
531
And so I felt very confident about all the aspects of the organization, how they fit together, and scouting and coaching.
532
And like I said, equipment and video and security and travel and all those things, because I was a part of those in one form or another at different points in my career.
533
So I think for a lot of people, when I talk about we need to start at the bottom and you really need to understand how the organization works, there's a lot of, I want to skip those steps.
534
There's, I want to, you know, I just want to jump up and coach the linebackers or the tight ends or whatever it is.
535
And I go, that's okay, but it would really help you to understand what happens in the entire organization.
536
And if you want to really move up and become a coordinator and a head coach, those will be very valuable for you because you'll understand the different intersections of various departments and how the organization works and where the conflicts are.
537
And sometimes you just, you know, kind of two people doing the same thing or nobody doing one thing and you miss that intersection somehow.
538
And that's just part of it.
539
But, you know, how do you avoid those and how do you make that more efficient?
540
So I really try to encourage the younger people, you know, to do those jobs and embrace them.
541
Don't, how quickly can I get done with this so I can go do something else?
542
No, embrace the job and embrace the process and understand it because it's going to help you in the long run.
543
And the other thing is, you know, as I mentioned a couple of times in the book with Josh McDaniels and Nick Osario and Brian Dable, if somebody has one of those jobs and they're really good at it and they say, well, I want to move you, you know, I want to move to more responsibility.
544
And I say, well, I want you to move to more responsibility too.
545
But first, you got to train somebody to do your job because what you're doing is really valuable.
546
And that's when Brian Dable hired Josh McDaniels to replace him.
547
That's when Josh McDaniels hired Nick Oserio to replace him.
548
And so, but it forced those guys to make sure that the person that was replacing them was not only good, but they trained them to do the things the way they needed to be done.
549
And that really heightened our efficiency, but also enabled them to move up to responsibility, move up in responsibility.
550
And so that really worked out well.
551
I was, you know, I thought that that was, for me, that was a good way to handle it because those guys were very invested in making sure their replacement did a good job because they knew they were going back to do that job if that person, if their replacement failed.
552
A lot of people, when you ask them to do sort of the unglorious task, they just look at you and say, that's not my job.
553
Yeah.
554
Yeah, it's not my job, or I'll get to it, you know, tomorrow, or I'll get to it next week, or whatever.
555
And those are, you know, I mean, I don't like to have those type of people, you know, around.
556
And sometimes it's inevitable and you have to put something off.
557
I mean, I get that.
558
But the quicker you get it done, the quicker you can move on to something else and be more productive.
559
And, you know, the more you procrastinate it, then, you know, it just slows everything down.
560
So there's got to be a priority system.
561
I mean, I'm fully aware of that.
562
But, you know, the people that want to put stuff off and kind of hope that it won't need to get done, they didn't do very well in our organization.
563
One thing you mentioned that stands out to me, I think of this like stepping stones where people have a job, but they see it as a stepping stone to the next job.
564
Right.
565
So they're never fully present in the job that they're doing because they're always looking ahead.
566
And those people don't actually tend to do very well at the next level.
567
Absolutely.
568
And like I said, then they miss some of the things that they really need to understand at the level that they're at.
569
And again, that's this part of do your job.
570
You know, that's this part of it is everybody has an important job to do.
571
And if you're trying to do somebody else's, then you're probably not doing yours well enough.
572
And, you know, be patient.
573
And, you know, your opportunities will come as long as you show that you can handle.
574
A lot of times there's a big rush to move ahead, and that a lot of times also brings sloppy work, incomplete work, and honestly, just a feeling that I don't not really confident promoting that person because they're more interested in what they are going to be doing than what we need them to do right now.
575
How would you define discipline?
576
Discipline is doing the right thing over and over again, doing it every time.
577
It's just continuing to do it every time.
578
In the National Football League, the players are very skilled and talented.
579
And I would say, you know, all of them can do something.
580
They can all go out there and produce plays at a very high level.
581
The discipline is what really separates the players, their consistency and their discipline to do it over and over again.
582
So you can count and depend on them at a very high and high rate.
583
Are there any stories in your mind that stand out about discipline or consistency involving players you've coached?
584
Well, I mean, I told the story of Edelman, you know, catching balls before the Super Bowl tennis balls and stuff like that.
585
I mean, those kind of things that, you know, the players do, they have a routine.
586
And, you know, if a guy's played eight, nine, ten, whatever years, if they skip a day in the routine, I mean, is it going to be the end?
587
Probably not.
588
But they're just so disciplined and so consistent to just continue to do it and maybe even do just a little tiny bit more to make sure that they're prepared for the game.
589
So, I mean, I really respect that, but it's a little bit like the shopping cart.
590
You know, when nobody's looking, are you going to take a shopping cart back and put it in where it belongs or just leave it there in the middle of the parking lot?
591
And it's the same thing with a really disciplined player and teammate.
592
Is he going to be disciplined to go in and get treatment after practice, even though it's two days before Christmas or whatever it is, where is he just disciplined to not let something get in the way of his productive routine?
593
And that's, you know, the guys that do that, I would say, have, for the most part, have had very long and productive careers.
594
And the guys that haven't have careers that go to a certain point with talent, but they don't have the same kind of longevity and consistency of a player like Matt Slater or Dev McCourty or Tom Brady or guys like that.
595
That people keep saying you just keep waiting for those guys to drop off, whether a year older, they're a year older, they're a year older, but you don't see the drop off because their routine and their discipline is so consistent that they're able to sustain that level of performance far longer than really what the expectations in some cases are.
596
Do you believe you can motivate people?
597
And if so, how?
598
I think you can definitely motivate them.
599
And it depends on the person.
600
I think there are different types of motivation.
601
There were times where I think you could really motivate a player by just flat out challenging them based on something that somebody else said or intimated or something that might have happened in the past.
602
I think you can motivate people by, especially, you know, sometimes maybe a more selfish type of player, you could motivate by making him see what the reward is for himself as opposed to the team.
603
An example I like to use, Shane, is if you have a receiver and you want the receiver to come in and block on a running play and come in and block a safety, which is a hard job.
604
You know, some receivers don't really want to do that.
605
They're really not too excited about that.
606
They want to catch passes.
607
But if you say, well, look, if you come in and block this guy and we need you to block him as a team, we need you to block him.
608
You've come in and blocked this guy.
609
Then the next time we come in and you'll do the same thing, but fake it, and we'll be able to throw you a pass when the defense comes up and solve the play.
610
Well, the player's not coming in and blocking because you asked them to block him, and we really need you to block him.
611
Julian Edelman would do that, but not everybody would necessarily do that.
612
But when they understand, okay, if I come in and do it this time, that opens up an opportunity for me the next time, then they might do it, right?
613
And so now I get what I want, he gets what he wants.
614
There's some management and motivation in there, but in the end, both parties are able to accomplish their goals.
615
I get the team goal, the player gets the individual goal, he sacrifices for the team, but for the other reasons.
616
So again, I think there.
617
Certainly, when you've lost to a team previously, um, that's a pretty good motivator for most of these guys because you know you take those losses personally.
618
And since we lost as a team, that is everybody, it's not you know one guy got a pass caught on him or one guy got a tackle.
619
I mean, it's it's a full team loss, so a lot of times you can you know you can generate a lot of um uh energy towards your opponent by um you know referencing that you know that that loss or situation that might have happened in a previous encounter.
620
As a leader, how did you know when to be hard on players and when to sort of back off?
621
And I'm thinking, you know, when a player makes a critical mistake in a game and they know they've made a mistake, what's your role in that moment?
622
Well, again, I think it depends on the mistake.
623
You know, if it's um sometimes you know something that kind of unexpectedly happens and maybe the player made a bad decision or maybe he did something that you know he's caught that pass a hundred times and he's dropped it once and this is the one time.
624
Um, you know, some of those are a little easier to handle.
625
Um, I'd say the ones where you know you've told the player 10 times this is what you need to do when this happens, and then they don't do it.
626
I'd say the reaction is a little bit different in that situation.
627
You know, how many times do you have to be told?
628
And you know what, maybe you know, you just don't want to do it, we'll put somebody else in there to do it because I can see that you know you're not, you know, you just don't care enough to follow your assignment.
629
So, um, you know, it kind of depends on those.
630
I think one of the biggest things.
631
But when during the game, when time is of the essence and you don't have much time, you need to figure out what went wrong pretty quickly and fix it.
632
So let's say defensively we came off the field and we'd given up a 20-yard run and maybe a 15-yard pass and another third-down conversion.
633
And you say, okay, like, what are the issues on these plays?
634
Well, let's say the 15-yard run would be if one person knows that they messed the play up and just says, hey, it's my fault.
635
I messed it up.
636
Like, that was, we were in good shape.
637
I was right there.
638
I should have made the tackle.
639
I just missed the tackle.
640
I'll make that play the next time.
641
Well, great.
642
That clears it up for everybody.
643
We all know we're going to do the same thing we did the last time.
644
And this time I know that my teammate's going to make the tackle versus kind of a blame game where I was here.
645
I don't know.
646
I should have been there.
647
Should I have done this?
648
And should I do that?
649
And if I do deep and this and that.
650
And then it's, you know, what's the issue?
651
How do we fix it?
652
Right.
653
And so if you know you did something wrong, just own it.
654
All right.
655
Admit it.
656
And let's move on.
657
Sometimes it's not that simple.
658
Sometimes you kind of have to figure out, well, I do what I thought I was supposed to do.
659
You do what you were supposed to do.
660
He did what he was supposed to do.
661
We still have a problem.
662
Okay, now that needs to be fixed.
663
And so, but again, identifying mistakes and fixing them quickly is really the name of the game.
664
And as a coach, you know, when I would say, look, that play was a bad call.
665
I shouldn't have called that defense against that personnel group or against that formation.
666
It's not going to come up again because I won't call it again in that situation.
667
Okay, well, then, all right, well, let's stop worrying about that play.
668
Let's worry about something else.
669
So, owning up to those mistakes and making the corrections is key.
670
If you don't know what it is exactly, then that's when you have to figure it out pretty quickly, whether those are players or coaches or some combination.
671
Because if you don't, you're just going to keep, you know, you keep dealing with the same issue over and over again.
672
And none of us want that.
673
When I say the words on to Cincinnati, what does that mean to you?
674
On to Cincinnati, well, it first of all means it was a long night in Kansas City.
675
You know, we got totally beaten in that game, out-coached, out-played, out everything.
676
They were just a far superior team than we were.
677
And as a head coach, you have to look at that and say, you know, I didn't have our team, you know, where they should have been, and we didn't play well.
678
We didn't do anything well.
679
And it starts with me.
680
But that game's in the books.
681
It's over, and there's nothing we can do about it.
682
We can't get it back.
683
So we just have to move on to Cincinnati and make sure that we don't perform next week like we did last week.
684
You know, don't let one game become two bad games.
685
Don't let it become three bad games.
686
Don't let it become a habit.
687
Change the things that we need to change.
688
So we played Cincinnati the following week, and our players did a great job of putting the Kansas City game behind us and focusing on what we needed to improve on and do better.
689
And get ready for Cincinnati, who was a very good football team.
690
And so, you know, we were able to do that, and it became one of those catchphrases.
691
But really, the idea of it was move on and let's start getting ready for next week.
692
It's kind of similar to the situation we had in 2001, Shane, where we buried the ball.
693
You know, we lost to Miami.
694
We didn't play very well, obviously, didn't coach very well.
695
And we came back and we just took the team out there.
696
I got a shovel.
697
I dug a hole.
698
I took the ball.
699
You know, we put it in the ground.
700
We put the dirt on the ball.
701
We stomp on it.
702
We spit on it.
703
We kicked it.
704
We took our frustrations out.
705
But that was the funeral.
706
Game's over.
707
It's done.
708
We lost, buried the ball, buried our feelings.
709
Move on.
710
I'm not saying that was this great thing, but visually, it's sort of the point of it was put the game out of your mind.
711
It's over.
712
We've had the funeral.
713
Life goes on.
714
I've heard you say we're building a team, not collecting talent.
715
What's the difference?
716
The difference is it so it fits together so that the team is functionally as efficient as it can be.
717
Not just a bunch of guys wearing the same uniform with different numbers, but a group of people who function well together as a team.
718
And when you think about football, Shane, football is a team of teams, right?
719
You have the offense, you have the defense, you have a hands team, you have a punt return team, you have a nickel defense, you have a dime defense, you have a goal-line offense, and so forth.
720
And so, you know, the idea is whichever team you're on, you need to be the very best team that you can be in that situation.
721
If it's a hands team, if it's a punt-return team, whatever it is, like that is critical to our success.
722
And you have your responsibilities on that team.
723
I have my responsibilities on some different teams.
724
But ultimately, we all come together.
725
And those shared responsibilities and those shared teams so that we can operate together functionally as a team are really what we're trying to accomplish.
726
So it's not just getting a bunch of guys who, you know, can do, have good skills and can run fast and jump high or whatever.
727
I mean, that helps, of course, but they have to be able to operate as a team and as a team of teams.
728
And, you know, a lot of that is a mentality, is a willingness to communicate and work with and efficiently cooperate with your teammates so that collectively we can accomplish our goals when our unit's out on the field.
729
How has coaching changed in the past five years?
730
You know, outside of rules changes and things like that.
731
You know, there are some trends.
732
And, you know, I think as, look, when you're on defense, you have to react to the offense, right?
733
If the offense has three tight ends on the field, you're not going to be playing the same defense that you have when they have three receivers on the field.
734
So, defensively, a lot of what you have to deal with.
735
Now, you can say, look, we're going to play the same thing and make them adjust to us.
736
But, I mean, there are certain matchups that just become difficult to sustain that philosophy.
737
So, what I'd say is it's important to defensively be able to adapt to what the offense is doing because ultimately, you don't control who they put on the field.
738
You just have to stop them.
739
You know, offensively, you know, you take the talent that you have and try to make the most of it.
740
So, I would say in college football, which is where we get our resources from in the NFL, you know, some of that's a function of what's available, you know, what's coming out, what they're teaching in college, what type of players they're developing, because that's really what you have to choose from.
741
So, I do think there are some trends, but fundamentally, it really comes down to having good, solid fundamentals and doing the little things right that will enable you to win your one-on-one matchups.
742
And I would say I don't think those have changed too dramatically over the years.
743
On the way out of the building, you had a sign that read, Ignore the noise, manage expectations, speak for yourself, and don't believe the fuel or hype.
744
Can you walk me through those?
745
Yeah, absolutely.
746
Absolutely.
747
Well, speak for yourself is pretty obvious.
748
You know, if you have any comments to make, just make them personally.
749
You know, don't say things like, well, Shane's looking really good this year.
750
I mean, he should probably have 15 sacks the way he's rushing the passer, you know, and start making expectations and predictions for other people and things like that.
751
Ignore the noise.
752
I mean, there's so much airtime that's filled, whether it's on the radio, on the internet, on TV, of people talking about football, all right, and players and matchups and everything.
753
And, the people that talk about it haven't been in our building.
754
They haven't watched us practice.
755
They haven't watched us prepare for the game.
756
They don't know what our matchups are.
757
They don't know what, you know, they don't know what our game plan is.
758
So with all due respect, what they say as it relates to us, it doesn't matter.
759
If other fans want to listen to them, I mean, that's great.
760
But, you know, when they say, well, you know, Shane Parrish has got to shut down Belichick or they're going to lose.
761
That's, you know, it's just hot air.
762
So ignore the noise.
763
It's just, ignore what other people who aren't really don't know what they're talking about are saying.
764
And focus on what the people in our building, in this room, are saying, what your teammates are saying, how they can, how you can communicate with them, how you can anticipate a play and help them react to it and that kind of thing.
765
You know, don't fuel the hype.
766
You know, when things are going good, I mean, people can't wait to, you know, you're 3-0 and they're selling Super Bowl tickets and they're already talking about, you know, repeats and all this stuff.
767
And our thing was, don't add into that.
768
If other people say it, we can't control that.
769
Once we say it, now we have to own it.
770
And so Belichick says, you know, we should be in the AOC championship game and we won't play four games.
771
Well, then everybody else has to react to that.
772
Shane, what do you think about what Belichick said?
773
Tom, what do you think about what Belichick said?
774
Gronk, what do you think about it?
775
You know, it just creates a distraction.
776
So fueling the hype or believing the hype that four games.
777
It's just way too premature.
778
So, you know, don't deal with that one.
779
What was the last one?
780
Ignore the noise.
781
Don't feel the hype.
782
Speak for yourself.
783
Manage expectations.
784
I manage expectations.
785
Right.
786
And so, like, what are realistic expectations?
787
This week, it's to beat the team we're playing.
788
Like, our focus is on beating Buffalo this week.
789
That's who we play.
790
That's where we're at.
791
You know, in terms of winning the division, you know, which is eight weeks away from now, don't talk about winning the division.
792
Like, that's not an expectation.
793
We can't achieve that right now, even if we wanted to.
794
It's only the fourth game of the year.
795
Now, if this was the game to win the division, then okay, let's talk about winning the division.
796
But until we get to that point, you know, manage the expectations.
797
The expectations are to have a good day today, have a good week, and to win this game.
798
Those are our weekly expectations.
799
You know, not where we're going to be in January, who we're going to play in the playoffs, or again, managing expectations of like, oh, this guy should go out and he should have 2,000 yards receiving.
800
Why don't you just worry about what you're going to do and stop talking about what other people, what your expectations are for them?
801
That's speaking for yourself, but that's also managing expectations.
802
Or a player is saying, well, I expect to, you know, I expect to go to the Pro Bowl.
803
Well, is that your goal to go to the Pro Bowl, or is our goal to win a championship?
804
And let's go back here for a minute.
805
What are our expectations?
806
Like, let's think about what's first things first.
807
Put the team first.
808
And that's, you know, team, teammate, self.
809
That was the whole, you know.
810
I usually end with one question about success, but I actually want to change that a little bit here and flip that around.
811
And I want to talk about the Atlanta Super Bowl.
812
You're down 28 to 3.
813
And the thing that astounded me as a fan who's watched a lot of football and a lot of games was that nobody was sort of like hanging their head.
814
You know, you look at Brady on the sideline, you're down 25 points, and he still had confidence.
815
Yeah, you know what I'm saying?
816
It's funny.
817
Sometimes you play a game and you feel like you have control of the game, but you don't have control of the score.
818
And that was that game.
819
I felt like we had pretty good control of the game, but we didn't have control of score at all.
820
There are other games where you have control of the score and you don't have control of the game.
821
You know, maybe you're ahead by 10 points, but they fumbled, they threw an interception, you got a lucky break, and you're ahead, but you really haven't been able to move the ball.
822
You really haven't been able to stop them.
823
They've just fumbled it away a couple of times and you've kind of maybe got a lucky play to get your points.
824
And so you feel like you don't have control of the game, but you're ahead on the scoreboard.
825
And what you really want, of course, is to have control of the game and control the score.
826
But in that game, we had a real confidence at halftime when it was 21 to 1 that we'd given up a touchdown on a third and goal from the 12.
827
We gave up a pick six.
828
We fumbled going in.
829
You know, we missed some opportunities to, you know, maybe be tied or could have even been ahead in the game at halftime.
830
And so, yeah, the score was bad, but we felt like we were had control of the game.
831
Well, then they go out and score and make it 28-3.
832
And now I'm thinking, you know, we might have control of the game, but 25 points is a lot to make up.
833
And there's a lot of things that have to go right.
834
So two two-point conversions and a strip sack and two kickoffs where we tackled them inside the 15-yard line so they couldn't get into field goal range and another sack and another holding penalty.
835
And literally everything went right for us in the last, you know, 20 minutes of the game.
836
There was no lack of confidence because we actually felt like we had control of the game.
837
We were moving the ball.
838
We were playing good defense, but we just had a couple of bad plays in there that skewed us and skewed the score.
839
But once that kind of settled down, you know, we were okay.
840
And then once we kind of got rolling, again, we had some plays that we needed to make and we made them on both sides of the ball and in the kicking game on those kickoffs.
841
So everything had to go right and it did.
842
And we were very fortunate in that one.
843
I really appreciate you taking the time today, Coach Milichek, and thank you for writing The Art of Winning.
844
I loved reading it.
845
It was a great read.
846
Thanks, Shane.
847
I appreciate it.
848
Thanks for the opportunity to be on.
849
It was a pleasure.
850
I enjoyed speaking with you.
851
And I look forward to catching up down the road.
852
You know, I just would be remiss if I didn't, you know, say how much, you know, Michael Lombardi has contributed to my career and indirectly to this book.
853
I mean, a lot of the things that we talk about and I talk about here are things that I share with Mike or that Mike helped me do.
854
And, you know, very well organized, very efficient, and is an excellent partner to build the program down there.
855
So I really appreciate all of not only Mike's help, but his guidance and the daily coach and the motivation that he puts out on a daily basis is something that we all look forward to and enjoy at Carolina.
856
I'm looking forward to getting down there and watching again.
857
I look forward to having you, Shane.
858
Thanks for listening and learning with us.
859
Be sure to sign up for my free weekly newsletter at fs.blog/slash newsletter.
860
The Farnham Street website is also where you can get more info on our membership program, which includes access to episode transcripts, my repository, ad-free episodes, and more.
861
Follow myself and Farnham Street on X, Instagram, and LinkedIn to stay in the loop.
862
Plus, you can watch full episodes on our YouTube channel.
863
If you like what we're doing here, leaving a rating and review would mean the world.
864
And if you really like us, sharing with a friend is the best way to grow this community.
865
Until next time.