--- METADATA START ---
Show: Eye On A.I.
Episode: #261 Jonathan Frankle: How Dat…
Host: Unknown 
Guests: Jonathan Frankle
Source URL: https://podcasts.apple.com/us/podcast/261-jonathan-frankle-how-databricks-is-disrupting-ai/id1438378439?i=1000712600862
--- METADATA END ---

1
The idea is that you can, if you really want to be reductive about it, this is a synthetic data generation and usage technique where you give us the prompts, we generate synthetic data based on those prompts, and then we integrate that synthetic data back into the model.
2
And then you can repeat this process many times with more prompts as you collect them over time.
3
And the nice thing about synthetic data generation at training time is I usually make recommendations to customers to be as conservative as possible when they're doing something with AI.
4
They're already doing something with AI, and that's an aggressive choice to make.
5
We're still learning how to do that.
6
So,, don't push your luck in some sense.
7
So, what I typically tell people is don't deploy something that you haven't tested.
8
And so, my usual recommendation is deploy the model,, collect the data, and then redo tau on all the data you've collected so far.
9
Test that model, and then,, even consider A-B testing it to make sure that,, for whatever metrics you're looking at in production, this model isn't going to make things worse, and then deploy it.
10
In business, they say you can have better, cheaper, or faster.
11
You only get to pick two.
12
What if you could have all three at the same time?
13
That's exactly what Cohair, Thompson Reuters, and Specialized Bikes have since they upgraded to the next generation of the cloud, Oracle Cloud Infrastructure.
14
OCI is the blazing fast platform for your infrastructure, database, application development, and AI needs, where you can run any workload in a high-availability, consistently high-performance environment, and spend less than you would with other clouds.
15
How is it faster?
16
OCI's block storage gives you more operations per second.
17
Cheaper?
18
OCI costs up to 50% less for compute, 70% less for storage, and 80% less for networking.
19
Better?
20
In test after test, OCI customers report lower latency and higher bandwidth versus other clouds.
21
This is a cloud built for AI and all your biggest workloads.
22
Right now, with zero commitment, try OCI for free.
23
Head to oracle.com/slash Ion AI.
24
Ion AI, all run together, E-Y-E-O-N-A-I.
25
That's oracle.com slash Ion AI.
26
But why don't you begin by introducing yourself?
27
Go ahead.
28
Definitely.
29
So I'm Jonathan Frankl.
30
I'm chief AI scientist here at Databricks.
31
I oversee a lot of our research efforts on trying to make AI more useful for our customers and understanding how AI and data interact in a productive way.
32
I got here, Databricks acquired my startup, Mosaic ML, I guess about a year and a half ago now.
33
We were dedicated to helping everybody train their own AI models from scratch.
34
Founded out of my PhD along with co-founders Naveen Rao and Hanlon Tang and Michael Carbon.
35
And before that, I was a PhD student studying how to make neural network training more efficient.
36
So it's been a wild journey over the past few years.
37
But if you're looking for one through line, I care a lot about making sure everybody can use and control this technology and do with it what they want.
38
I think a lot about the internet where everybody could have a website.
39
And that led to just such an explosion of creativity, a lot of really bad ideas and a few absolutely brilliant ideas.
40
And if I told you from the beginning, oh, why don't we create an encyclopedia online that anyone can edit and contribute to, you'd say, definitely one of the bad ideas.
41
And it turns out it'll change the world.
42
So the idea that AI is similar and everybody has the chance to do creative things with it to solve their problems,, it'll change the world again.
43
Yeah, absolutely.
44
I agree, which is why I have this podcast.
45
So I was reading, and at Databricks, what's your,, describe for listeners what Databricks does, first of all.
46, I've talked, I think, before on the podcast about the data lakes and/what's it called?
47
Yeah, data lakes.
48
Isn't that the term that we're the data lake house?
49
Right, exactly.
50
Data lake house, that's right.
51
And what that means and how what you're doing on tuning models fits in that.
52
Yeah, so I think the Databricks journey from the very beginning,, the stories have lived in legend for me as someone who's watched Databricks from afar, and now I get to be a part of it and hear all the inside stories.
53
But the story began where it is today.
54
People have lots of data, they need a way to manage it, and they need a way to understand it.
55
And data and AI are intrinsically linked to each other because what do you do with a bunch of data?
56
You understand it.
57
And Databricks is, as far as I can tell, looking through the history books, always been about using whatever the latest AI was to understand your data.
58
Now, that AI wasn't always,, large language models or neural networks or anything that, but AI and machine learning have been fundamental because what do you do with your data?
59
You don't just stick it in a data lake house and just let it sit there collecting dust.
60
You want to understand it.
61
It's only useful, it's only worth having there if you can do something useful with it.
62
So, this is this concept we to refer to these days as data intelligence, the idea that you want to be able to talk to your data, understand it, figure out what's there, interact with it, learn what it's trying to tell you, make effective use of it.
63
So,, we offer ways to manage both unstructured data documents and structured data.
64
You can think of that as,, SQL or individual entries into a database.
65
And a lot of the work these days is on the question of how do we use all the cool modern AI that's out there to give people new ways to understand it and to give new people ways of understanding it.
66
There are a lot of people who in yesteryear would have had to write a notebook and write Python and do a SQL query or write in Scala or Spark to be able to get insights from their data.
67
And today, I think AI is going to make it possible for pretty much everybody to do this.
68
I don't know SQL, but I've been able to do this for my data at Databricks.
69
Yeah, and the data lake lake house concept really started during the supervised learning phase of AI when everyone was labeling data and training models with labeled data was largely text reading models or image reading models.
70
And you came in after the generative AI revolution where suddenly really those silos are breaking down.
71, at the time during the supervised learning phase, I used to talk to people about,, you train your data, but there are all these pools or lakes of data around, and sooner or later they're going to merge, and we're going to have an ocean of data, a lot of it labeled.
72
But the science overtook that.
73
You don't need to do that any longer.
74
I wanted to talk to you about Tau, which I've got to call it up.
75
Let me see here.
76
Tao, Tao.
77
So test time adaptive optimization, which I found fascinating.
78
I read your paper.
79
Before I start asking about it, what really fascinates me is it looks it's a way to create an ever-improving model, at least in narrow domains, which is something that I haven't seen before.
80
Maybe it exists and I just haven't stumbled on it.
81
But first of all, can you talk about training and tuning?
82
How you, is that what,, I guess that's what Mosaic was doing, right?
83
And that's what Databricks bought you for.
84
But is what's what's talk a little bit about your role in that at Databricks.
85
Yeah, so I think it's worth taking a step back and just asking,, yeah, why am I even here?
86, what is my purpose and what do I contribute?
87, I'm an AI resourcer every day.
88
Yeah.
89
Yeah.
90
We're trying to solve real problems for customers.
91, why do you need a guy me around Databricks?
92
And,, my best answer is there are a lot of cool things happening in the research world that are clearly very valuable somehow.
93
And there are a lot of important problems our customers have that they need to get solved and they really wish they had the magic to do it.
94
And my job is to connect the dots between these.
95
And Tau is one of those examples.
96
So,, customers want to get their data and their models to interact with each other.
97
They want to be able to bring all that data to their models and have the models be able to speak fluently or answer questions about their model or reason in whatever domain they care about.
98
And there are lots of ways of doing that.
99
And those ways are things you can prompt or do rag to bring your data in.
100
You could fine-tune a model on your data.
101
There are lots of ways to do this.
102
You could even have a model write calls to a SQL database.
103
And fine-tuning is probably the most powerful of these techniques.
104
It lets you literally change the model and teach it more about your data directly and intrinsically, as opposed to having the model start fresh every time you interact with it.
105
And fine-tuning is a bit of a tricky thing to do for a lot of reasons.
106
But one of the reasons we saw again and again was that fine-tuning is really demanding in terms of data.
107
You basically, to fine-tune a model to do something, you need examples of doing that exact thing with your data.
108
So if you want a model to serve as a customer service bot, you need to have examples of user asking questions and what the customer service agent should say in return.
109
And you need thousands of those examples.
110
And what we found was that people have lots of incredible data.
111
It's very rare that they magically have the perfect fine-tuning set.
112
That's just not the data that gets created in nature.
113
In nature, you have lots of documents that accumulate, and you have some telemetry data, and you have some user inputs, and you have some manuals on how to respond, or some guides, or some decision trees, or whatever else you have floating around, plus a SQL database of relevant information.
114
But in nature, you don't have this perfect, pristine data showing what an interaction should look with an LLM.
115
It's just a very, it's a hard, it's a lot to ask of someone.
116
And,, the correct answer when you come to a customer and they say, I really want an LLM that's fine-tuned for my task, is not, well, go annotate 10,000 examples and come back to me when you're done.
117
That's not an adequate answer.
118
And I think to date, that's been the answer that the research community has had for all of our customers.
119
Just,, it's your problem.
120
You didn't give me the right data.
121
And I think that's a bad answer.
122
That's not an answer that's going to lead to people successfully deploying AI.
123
Nobody has time for that.
124
Nobody has resources for that.
125
By the time they do that, the field will have moved on or their business will have moved on.
126
And so the question we asked ourselves with Tau was : on the one hand, what can we do to simplify this?
127, is there something we can take away or something we can, some constraint we can remove that will make this easier?
128
And on the flip side, does the technology exist to do anything useful with that?
129
If I have the customer give me just inputs, but no outputs for how the LLM should behave, well, do I have science that can help me to tune a model on that?
130
Or it sounds unreasonable.
131 you have no idea what someone wants the LLM to do.
132, there could be many good responses to one input depending on what the user wants.
133
And so my job, in a sense, is to move back and forth between these worlds.
134
On the one hand, I'm always asking,, what's making our customers' lives difficult or what do they wish they could do?
135
And if I had a magic wand and I could make their life a little easier, what would I do to make that easier?
136
And on the other hand, okay, my magic wand is really not magic, it's science.
137
What techniques exist?
138
What techniques can I modify?
139
What can I build that will bridge these gaps?
140
So half my time, I feel I'm a researcher, half my time, I feel I'm a product manager.
141
I spend a huge amount of time with our customers just talking to them about what they're trying to do and understanding their problems, not the ones in abstract that I think many of us think people have, but really where they're stuck.
142
And if only I could remove this one thing.
143
So with Tau, that's exactly what happened.
144
We said, getting labeled data is really hard.
145
How can we simplify this?
146
And there are lots of ways you could simplify it.
147
You could ask someone to write a detailed rubric of how something should behave, or write a bunch of judges or graders that tell you,, for any arbitrary output, how good is it?
148
It turns out those things are also really hard.
149
And it would be nice if we could just simplify it further.
150
You don't even need any labels at all.
151
That means that all you have to do is show up with a bunch of inputs reflecting what people might ask your LLM.
152
And you just get an LLM that's good at those inputs.
153
Now, the nice thing about that is it's really easy to get inputs.
154
Just set up a really basic LLM.
155
You can set up LLAMA, give it a really basic prompt, and ask your friends or your teammates or yourself to just interact with it and ask it a bunch of questions.
156
It's probably going to do a bad job.
157
But you don't care whether it gives you a good answer.
158
You just care that you've asked it a good question.
159
And so this is great.
160
This means that it's really easy to get the training data because it's something that people can naturally provide to the system.
161
There's no real work involved.
162
We're not asking someone to sit down and literally write 10,000 questions.
163
Just put this in the wild, beta test it, prototype it.
164
Ask your team to do an hour hackathon and just ask it all the questions that they might want to.
165
Pretend to be the customer.
166
Ask a customer to prototype it with you, and you can collect the data you need.
167
Then you get to the really tricky part, which is what the hell do you do with that data?
168
Because it sounds,, I hope I'm not being overly dramatic, but it sounds insane.
169, all I know are the inputs, and you're going to tune a model that will give me the outputs I want.
170
That's what's going on.
171
And this is a place where we turn to techniques from reinforcement learning.
172
And reinforcement learning is a set of techniques where, rather than giving yourself inputs and good outputs, you give yourself inputs and just an environment where a model can explore.
173
You can think of this when people have built models for Go.
174
For example, DeepMind built this model that was really good at Go or game playing.
175
Let it explore the environment and figure out for itself.
176
You need to have an environment it can explore and some signal that tells you what outcomes are good and which outcomes aren't.
177
This is why people love games so much.
178
Because you just explore the environment, when you're scoring points, when you're winning, and, you get good signal.
179
And here, what we did is the environment is in some sense this special model we call DBRM or the Databricks Reward model.
180
This is a type of model that's very common in the reinforcement learning world.
181
And all it's meant to do is tell you how good is a particular output.
182
And that sounds very generic, just generically, how good is it?
183
But the way you train this is you show it lots of examples of pairs of outputs for a given input and which one a human liked more.
184
And you just show it tons and tons of this data.
185
And it turns out it generalizes pretty well.
186
So you combine that with a bunch of inputs you have, do some synthetic data generation and filter it with this reward model, use the right techniques to train the model after that.
187
And this sounds really easy, a lot of very careful work on the part of the scientists who worked on this to just get the details right.
188
And it turns out that it, there are very reasonable choices you can make a lot of the time.
189
If I showed you two outputs and I showed you the input, you'll probably have a pretty good intuition as to which one is better.
190
You won't know which one is right.
191
But as long as you can keep steering things in the right direction, the model will get better and better.
192
And that's what we saw.
193
Not only did this lead to improvements, even though you had no examples of how the model should behave, but it even beat training on labeled data, which is crazy.
194
And I can say a bit more about that at some point if you'd, but it's,, it's not as crazy as it sounds, I think, but it was just very surprising to us.
195
And this worked across a pretty wide range of tasks, document question answering and SQL, which again was very surprising to me that a reward model could generalize in that way.
196
It's really exciting for the future.
197
Maybe enterprise tasks are more similar than we think.
198
Yeah,, but supervised fine-tuning, you need these question-answer pairs for a language model.
199
And what you're talking about, you still need question-answer pairs, right?
200
But you're getting them through reinforcement learning with human feedback.
201
I wouldn't call them question-answer pairs here, because I think it's it ends up being more complicated than that.
202
I would call it questions and steering on which answers are better or worse.
203
Because it's not really, none of them are, there's nothing in Tau that ever checks is the answer right or even is the answer good.
204
There's just asking is the answer better and which answers are better.
205
and trying to continually move the model toward better answers, which is very, I don't know, I found that to be a little bit mind-bending when I started this project.
206
I have a bunch of reinforcement learning enthusiasts on my team and specialists on my team who have been,, spouting the gospel of reinforcement learning for as long as they've been here.
207
And I've just been politely ignoring them and patting them on the head.
208
And,, I've learned maybe there's something to what they do and I should listen to them a little bit more.
209
Yeah.
210
So in this process, you do use RLHF.
211
That's correct.
212
Yeah.
213
And then you, once you have that data, then you use pure reinforcement learning.
214
That's correct.
215
So we're using, I would think of this as techniques from the RLHF literature and just combining them in the right way.
216
I won't claim that there's anything we invented that's mind-bending from a scientific perspective.
217
I,, I think there were, when we released this, there were some folks on Twitter who were, this doesn't sound very novel.
218
And my response was, it works.
219
And getting it to work is the hard part.
220, that's the novelty is easy.
221 getting stuff to work for real customers is hard.
222
So the details of, okay, we're going to take some inputs, we're going to generate in the right way, we're going to select in the right way, build the right reward model, all that stuff took time.
223
This reinforcement learning step, after you've gathered the data, is happening at test time.
224
Is that right?
225
It's very similar to DeepSeek and this test time compute training that has become a paradigm for refining models.
226
But it's different in that you're only doing it during the tuning phase.
227
You don't do it during the inference phase.
228
Can you talk about why that's an advantage?
229
And what really fascinates me is unlike test time compute training is temporary, it improves the inference accuracy.
230
But once you're done with that inference, the model reverts to its training state and you lose that improvement, right?
231
But in your case, it continually improves the model.
232
Can you talk about that?
233
Yeah, yeah.
234
So I think there was enormous debate internally about whether we should use the word test time.
235
That's interesting.
236
Because it's not really, it's using test time compute for training.
237
And so is it really test time?
238
There was,, there was some debate over this word.
239
So the way I think about it is even ignoring the word test time.
240
The idea is that you can, if you really want to be reductive about it, this is a synthetic data generation and usage technique where you give us the prompts, we generate synthetic data based on those prompts, and then we integrate that synthetic data back into the model.
241
And then you can repeat this process many times with more prompts as you collect them over time.
242
And the nice thing about synthetic data generation at training time is, well, let's take a step back.
243
If you were to just use, let's say, O1 or R1, which are both excellent models, you're going to use an uncertain amount of compute at inference time.
244
You don't know how much is going to get used.
245
The model may explore for a while.
246
It,, there's some uncertainty there.
247
And,, that can get expensive as well.
248
We saw in practice, O1 and O3 were using about five times as many tokens somewhere around then to solve problems, which is not unexpected.
249
They're designed to do that.
250
That's the whole point.
251
That's why they're so powerful.
252
And one other way of looking at this is, what if you use all that extra compute to generate the synthetic data?
253
And then you create a standard model that when you go to use it at inference time, doesn't use any extra compute, just behaves normally.
254
And the idea here is we expect that for our customers who are using this technique, if they have a bunch of inputs already, they've probably already got an application deployed.
255
They at least have some amount of confidence that it's worth doing this training.
256
And so they're willing to invest a little more in training to make inference a lot cheaper.
257
So the idea is, okay, let's spend some more compute at training time to generate better synthetic data.
258
And then let's generate a normal model that when we use it at inference time has exactly the same inference cost as Lama had we not done Tau.
259
So it's a bit of a, it's taking this test time compute paradigm and flipping it on its head a little bit.
260
The test time compute is to help you build the training set.
261
But at the end of the day, you're training a model that you use normally.
262
And we think this is the right mix for customers who are deploying applications at high volume.
263
If you're doing something Tau,, you're trying to cut down on the cost at inference time anyway.
264
Often, you're trying to train a custom model to replace something else that you might have.
265
So let's really lean into the fact that we can help you reduce your inference cost and a little more upfront investment, probably worth it to you.
266
Yeah.
267
And then once you're in inference mode, you're collecting more queries, more prompts that then you can use in tuning mode, just the tuning time compute.
268
Do you periodically go back and retune the model on the data that's built up, or is there a way of doing that in the background, even if the model is being used for inference?
269
Or do you split it into two instances of the model and one you're improving through this tune time compute, the other's doing inference out in the wild, and then you swap the models periodically?
270, how does that work?
271
It's a great question.
272
It's something we're still experimenting with customers on just to get it in exactly the right shape.
273
I usually make recommendations to customers to be as conservative as possible when they're doing something with AI.
274
They're already doing something with AI, and that's an aggressive choice to make.
275
We're still learning how to do that.
276
So,, don't push your luck in some sense.
277
So, what I typically tell people is don't deploy something that you haven't tested.
278
And so, my usual recommendation is deploy the model,, collect the data, and then redo Tau on all the data you've collected so far, test that model, and then even consider A-B testing it to make sure that for whatever metrics you're looking at in production, this model isn't going to make things worse, and then deploy it.
279
And the idea there is, first of all, it's just playing it safe.
280
Again, you're making a very aggressive choice to use AI at all right now.
281
It's exciting, but be careful.
282
And the other piece is that you don't necessarily want to just want to train a model that you've already done Tau on on more recent data.
283
You can end up in this interesting place where the model will get extra good at the latest stuff and may forget things because you're emphasizing the latest data.
284
Sometimes that makes a ton of sense if you're in a chatbot application, let's say for retail, you may want to use the latest data because you don't want it to be talking about Valentine's Day when it's Thanksgiving.
285
Sometimes you do want to mix all the data together just to make sure that you're fully representing the earlier stuff.
286
So this gets into more application-specific considerations.
287
I'm guessing the big recommender systems powering ad placement at Google and Facebook, I'm guessing those are trained mostly on most recent data because human behavior changes so quickly.
288
But for a lot of our enterprise applications, taking things one step at a time and combining everything together, again, it's the safest possible choice to make.
289
And then you can experiment and try lots of different things.
290
But I wouldn't recommend trying to update in real time, especially without testing the models first, just to be extra safe.
291
Yeah.
292
And so you mentioned overriding previous parameters, which has been the problem that restricts continuous learning is catastrophic forgetting.
293
So yours doesn't get around the catastrophic forgetting problem.
294
No, I wouldn't make that claim.
295
I would say,, very narrowly, this gets around the need for labeled data, or at least,, assists you by reducing the need for labeled data.
296
When it comes to catastrophic forgetting, it still puts you in the same trade-off that you're always in of,, do you train on the latest data and hope that the model doesn't forget?
297
Do you combine all the data together?
298
Do you upweight more recent data?
299
There's, I don't think we have an amazing answer for catastrophic forgetting.
300
I will say forgetting is a lot less catastrophic than it used to be.
301
Back in my day, five whole years ago, catastrophic forgetting was a very severe problem in general when you did fine-tuning.
302
And these days, models are a little more robust to that just because they're so much bigger and they're able to store a lot more knowledge.
303
And also because we have better techniques for managing catastrophic forgetting.
304
To give you one example, there was a paper we worked on last year as a lab.
305
It's called LoRa Learns Less and Forgets Less.
306
It's using LoRa, this parameter efficient fine-tuning technique where you don't train all your parameters.
307
People used to think of this as a compromise.
308
You're doing this for the sake of efficiency because you can't afford to do full fine-tuning.
309
But you're going to get worse results.
310
What we found a lot over the past year has been LoRa is a regularization technique as much as anything else.
311
It learns less and forgets less.
312
It's a way to reduce overfitting and a way to reduce forgetting.
313
Now, there's a trade-off there.
314
Sometimes it'll learn too little and learn too much and forget too much.
315
Sometimes it'll learn too little and forget too little.
316
There's a balance.
317
But LoRa has been a really interesting technique just to manage learning and forgetting, or at least to give you more opportunities to explore the trade-off between the two.
318
Deeply surprising to us, but it, one of the most common scenarios I see, Laura, is for customers who come to me and they say, I'm overfitting and I don't know what to do about it.
319
And I just say, use Laura.
320
It sounds counterintuitive, but it works great.
321
And just for listeners, so we understand the process.
322
You take a model in the old days or the current paradigm, you take, let's say, an open source model and you want to fine-tune it.
323
So you get a bunch of label data and you fine-tune the model on that label data and then you release the model in the wild.
324
And then the reasoning models are allowed at test time to run further on the data or explore the data.
325
Maybe you can help me with my vocabulary there.
326
The way I would describe it to folks who are a little bit familiar, at least, is it's an automated chain of thought.
327
You're letting the model figure out its own chain of thought rather than guiding it through it.
328
But you're saying to the model, it's totally okay for you to spend some time thinking and exploring and considering and doing chain of thought.
329
Get back to me when you're ready.
330
Whereas,, in the more traditional paradigm, we basically ask the model for the answer right away and hope that just doing one pass through the model is enough for it to figure things out.
331
Yeah.
332
But in that case, the improvement that happens at tests at inference time is temporary.
333
And what strikes me about Tau is that during tuning time you're you're you're doing something similar in that you're you're gathering data from from inference time and using it to tune The the model fine-tune the model using reinforcement learning.
334
But those changes, supervised reinforcement learning, they change the weights of the underlying model so you don't lose that improvement.
335
Is that right?
336
That's right.
337
And I think there's, I'd add a little more nuance to this, which is that,, how did OpenAI train O1 in the first place?
338
Or how did DeepSeek train R1?
339
Well, what they did is they let the model think,, they did the same thing of tune time compute, if you want to call it that, where the model was given the chance to think and spend a lot of time coming to the right answer.
340
And what they did is they had a way to check whether the answer was correct or incorrect.
341
They threw out all the cases where the model thought for a long time and the answer was incorrect.
342
And that became their new training data.
343
And so they trained a model that knew how to reason and do its own automated chain of thought.
344
I think one of the big differences here is for our customer tasks, we have no idea how to determine what answer is right versus what answer is wrong.
345
For DeepSeek or for OpenAI, they're focused on domains math and coding where you can't check the answer.
346
There's a math equation, it leads to the right answer.
347
There's a proof, you can check whether it makes sense.
348
There's a,, there's a program, and you can check whether it executes and has the right behavior.
349
Whereas for a document question answering task or,, a summarization task, there is no right and wrong, and so instead, we're looking for better and worse.
350
That's an if you want to look for a key difference here.
351
The other part is, we're not trying to train the model to spit out its whole thinking trace, we're just trying to train a model to get right and wrong answers.
352
But we're trying to generalize this to basically any domain that a customer might want to address, which is,, they include a lot of hard, really fuzzy problems,, answering questions about health, where there's no one right answer necessarily or no one right way to give an answer.
353
And so we have to have something a little more general to help with that.
354
The other piece is that we expect the user to bring their own prompts.
355
And if they bring their own prompts, we can automatically specialize the model for a domain.
356
Whereas in the deep seek case, they have to generate a lot of math problems and keep generating new math problems over and over and over again to get more examples.
357
We're relying on the user to bring their own prompts because,, who are we to say what their problem is?
358
We should just let them describe it to us using the prompts.
359
And we found it's very easy for users to get lots of prompts.
360
It's just hard to get a lot of responses.
361
Yeah.
362
In this process, before I get on to what TAL can do in terms of increasing the power of open source models, what is the can you talk about the reinforcement learning process and how that's done?
363
You mentioned DBRM, is that what it's called?
364
Deep Databricks reinforcement model.
365
Remember model, I'm sorry.
366
Yeah.
367
How exactly does that work?
368
So we're using,, there's a bit we're probably not going to say about this because there was a lot of very detailed algorithmic work and a little bit of innovation that went on there.
369
But the general idea is that we're generating a lot of data.
370
We're figuring out which examples are better and worse using, or which outputs are better and worse using DBRM.
371
And then we're applying relatively standard RLHF techniques on this.
372
So it's nothing that will blow your mind or nothing that will surprise you.
373
A lot of the work is in just getting the details so that this whole process works well and doesn't completely fall apart.
374
And so honestly, the most interesting parts were the experiments where this went wildly off the rails and we had to spend some time getting the hyperparameters exactly right, getting the order of the steps exactly right, figuring out how many outputs to generate, all the ugly stuff that, again,, for my fan club on Twitter or my anti-fan club on Twitter,, not novel enough.
375
Nah, the novelty is overrated.
376
Working systems are what matter.
377
Yeah.
378
So the DBRM is Databack Brick's flavor of a reward.
379
Exactly.
380
We collected a ton of data on tasks that we thought were going to be most relevant to our customers.
381
A lot of stuff involving documents or structured data to unstructured data or vice versa, writing tasks, some math tasks.
382
But we really focused our data on the things that we thought would be reflective of what our customers were doing.
383
And we feel pretty good that everybody's trying to understand the data they have in Databricks, and that's documents for the most part, a little bit of SQL.
384
Yeah.
385
And that process, you use,, there's the RLHF part that provides data, but on the reinforcement learning tuning, that is autonomous.
386
That's correct.
387
Using other LLMs to judge the outputs to mark whether it's to reward or not reward, is that right?
388
So that's where, yeah, that's where DBRM is most helpful, is that DBRM gives us our signal of what we should reward and what we shouldn't reward.
389
If you imagine that game playing environment, in some sense, DBRM tells you what your score is at the game.
390
It helps you understand which strategies led to higher scores and which strategies led to lower scores.
391
And so that's, if there's one key piece to this whole thing, is the work we put into making DBRM really good and really specific to enterprise tasks.
392
Yeah.
393
And so with this, you're able to bring a LLAMA model up close to the level of O1 or 03, O3 Mini or R1 without increasing the inference cost of LLMA that's not fine-tuned.
394
Is that right?
395
So I'll be really careful how I answer this.
396, as a good scientist, we have to,, I have to be a little bit pedantic here.
397
I'm going to sound a lawyer for a moment.
398
For all my friends in the scientific community, I want to represent this properly.
399
The thing that I can say with certainty is at least for the tasks that we tried and for the models that we tried with the data sets we tried, because everything in science is contingent on those things.
400
If you have bad data, nothing good's going to happen.
401
And, we can't, we're never going to claim that something universally works on every task.
402
But for what we tried, which we hope is representative of what our customers do, we saw really big improvements in performance by using tau.
403
And not only were they big objectively, but they were big compared to doing supervised fine-tuning.
404
This was the part that got me most excited and was a bit of a surprise for us.
405
If you, we, we used the exact, we had these, for every one of our tasks, we had a set of, several thousand inputs and several thousand labeled outputs.
406
So we could do supervised fine-tuning.
407
That's the traditional way of solving these tasks.
408
We tried doing tau where we just dropped the outputs and instead used tau on the exact same inputs.
409
And it in fact led to better results across the board, which is crazy, right?
410
We're getting rid of labels, we're throwing out information, and it leads to better results.
411
And again, I don't want to promise this is universally true.
412
It's something we saw for these training sets on these tasks.
413
My hypothesis here, and it's just a hypothesis, is even for really good labeled data, data that is used widely in the academic community, that's quite popular, that our team has looked at, or our team has done our best work to try to create, it's still really hard to create good labels.
414
And so DBRM in some sense is it allows us to put all of our effort into building this one really, really good reward model.
415
And that may be easier than trying to create several sets of several thousand good labels.
416, I don't think this is necessarily, we didn't invent magic.
417
I don't think that in general, having no labels is better than having labels.
418, obviously, the more information you have, the better you should be able to do.
419
I just think getting good labels is really hard.
420
That was our takeaway.
421, wow, even for these world-class benchmarks, the labels may not be perfect.
422
And so, DBRM shines in comparison.
423
And so, if it's hard for my team and for world-class academic researchers to create good labels, it's not a fair fight for our customers to have to do that.
424
They're busy, they have other things going on, they're not sitting around getting PhDs in machine learning and spending their whole day trying to build the best labels.
425
So, let's just,, not only should we reduce the work for them, but it's probably leading to better results if they don't even try and we instead put a lot of work into DBRM to make their lives easier.
426
So, it's been this really, I don't know, it was really rewarding for me, no pun intended, to see that maybe not only can we make customers' lives easier, but in fact, it might be better to do that.
427
Usually, you would think of this as a compromise.
428
Now, the comparisons to O1 and R1 and GPT-4.0, I think that varies a lot by the task.
429
It's also a bit of an unfair comparison in a sense because,, OpenAI has to make O1 good at everything.
430
Tau is trying to make a model good at one thing.
431
But that's where the unfair advantage is for anyone who has some interesting inputs and domain knowledge.
432
You just have to make the model good at your one thing.
433
OpenAI is spending a huge amount of effort to try to make a model good at everything.
434
And that's where you can compete with the closed models by building something yourself, and where we see a lot of opportunity for custom fine-tuning of open models Llama.
435
Yeah, and I guess the question is: you can get that improvement through supervised fine-tuning if you have enough label data, right?
436
It's just what is the cost of doing it that way versus the cost of doing it the Tao way.
437
And the Tao way, since you're generating prompts or queries through inference time, and if you have a big user base, you're going to get a ton of that.
438
It's just a cheaper way of doing it.
439
Is that right?
440
Yeah, cheaper, but I'd,, the word cheaper is doing a lot of work there because it's cheaper in terms of cost, but it's cheaper in terms of time and effort and frustration.
441
I don't know, Craig, have you ever tried to label data?
442
No, I've watched it done on small,, on images, but yeah.
443
I'd love to,, this is something I try to do with my team periodically just so they remember.
444, whenever we say, oh, just have the customers label data, I want them to feel the pain and understand how frustrating this is.
445, whenever we say, oh, we're going to go and buy label data, just remember, try being the user of the rubric and the specification you created or the product you created.
446
It's really frustrating.
447, getting my team to do this for more than 20 minutes before they start checking their email and checking Slack is really hard.
448
You start seeing people drop off the Zoom call.
449
Oh, got to go.
450
It's lunchtime.
451
Got a meeting.
452
Sorry.
453
And now we're going to ask our wonderful Databricks customers to go do that.
454
So it's really,, it's cheaper, but I think that underplays, is the problem going to get solved with AI or is the problem not going to get solved with AI?
455
And I want to give our customers at least more at-bats to try to solve problems with AI.
456
And this is a key enabler for that, I hope.
457
Yeah.
458
And so the process is you start with a bunch of queries that if you've been using the model in some application, you're getting off your customers, but otherwise you have people interact with the model to develop the queries.
459
Then you use those queries.
460
Then you go through reinforcement learning with human feedback phase where you score the answers to those queries that said right, whether it's good or bad or which you prefer.
461
And then you take that data and use reinforcement learning to replicate those high scoring behaviors.
462
And the question becomes, can you identify that?
463
And if you can, you can steer the model toward doing more of that and less of the bad stuff on your task.
464
And that's really, it's another intuition for fundamentally what we're doing here.
465
It's,, easier said than done.
466
Identifying the good ones is,, if you knew how to do that, you probably wouldn't be generating the bad ones in the first place.
467
But DBRM has been really helpful for doing that on enterprise tasks.
468
And so I've, again, surprisingly well based on what I expected.
469
But does it, I don't know if that is, is that intuition a little bit helpful, a different way of looking at it?
470
And I guess this is the question on supervised fine-tuning, because in this case, so you've gone through this process, you improve the model, you put it back out for inference, people interact and it generates more queries or prompts, and then you can pull that in, go through the same process, and tune the model further.
471
And at least on that specific domain, it has continual improvement.
472
Is that right?
473
That's correct.
474
You're seeing more of the set of possible inputs your users might provide, and that just gives Tau more data to work off of.
475
So it's, it's a bit magical that you just, you get improvement without intervention.
476
That was what we were going for: is how can I train and then improve without really needing to do anything?
477
And just let the process work itself out.
478
Now, obviously, this will encounter limits.
479, there's only so much you can figure out without giving more clarity on what task you're trying to solve.
480
But I think for many of our customers, it's certainly the results showed it's good enough to get you an LLM that will,, that will do a lot better than the base Lama model at your task and will start to rival the closed models.
481
And for a lot of our customers, that's winning.
482, that's what winning looks.
483
Relatively easy improvements in your model, that something you control, you own, is relatively cheap to serve.
484
And then if you're really getting a lot of uptake, that's where you can go in and do the more detailed hardcore stuff that,, you can start to label data or get thumbs up, thumbs down data from users or do more advanced stuff to make this even more powerful.
485
But just getting to the point where your biggest problem is making it even more powerful, that's success.
486
That's a huge amount of progress from where I think a lot of folks are today with AI.
487
Yeah.
488
And on supervised fine-tuning, if you had some magical way to generate the supervised, the label data, you could do the same thing.
489
You could keep fine-tuning the model over and over and get it stronger and stronger.
490
It's just it takes more compute, more man hours.
491
Yeah, it's just effort.
492
It's, the person who's building this AI system at an enterprise is also trying to do their day job and also trying to,, they're either trying to do their day job or if they're lucky enough that this is their day job, they're trying to prove to their business leaders that AI has a place in their organization.
493
Because I think that's still something we all have to prove with this new technology.
494
And so just, yeah, let's get out of people's way.
495
Let's make sure their time is being spent carefully.
496
Yeah.
497
And what about this is on narrow tasks.
498
What about on multitasks, multi-task LLMs?
499, you can apply it given you have enough prompts in your enterprise.
500
You can apply it to more than just one task, right?
501
Yeah, and we saw really good results with this where we put together a prompt set geared toward a bunch of different enterprise tasks,, some documents, some question answering, some reasoning, some,, chat things.
502
And we got general improvement across that family of tasks, which made us confident,, as people move toward agents, you're going to probably want one LLM that can handle many different kinds of tasks for you.
503
You can use the same model in many parts of an agentic workflow.
504
And this gives us some hope that you can train something that's not just specialized to one task, but can do many tasks.
505
I'm still not going to claim it can do every task or anywhere close to it.
506
That would be,, I think that would be a little bit of hubris at this point.
507
But,, I do feel good that at least we have results indicating someone can hopefully have an LLM that can both do agentic routing and can also,, generate SQL queries and can also, let's say,, solve customer service requests.
508
And if you have good prompt sets for each of those, you can get an LLM that's going to do a pretty good job at those.
509
And again, these were surprises.
510
Things worked a little better than we expected, which is,, it's the happy part of science.
511
Most of the time, things work much worse than you expect.
512
Yeah.
513
And where are you going with this?
514, what's next on your plate?
515
Are you working on developing Tau to broaden it or make it more autonomous?
516
Yeah, I want to have reasoning LLMs for everyone as well.
517
The same thing I mentioned before about how right now, if you want to train a reasoning LLM, you need a way to tell right from wrong and correct from incorrect.
518
Something a lot, it's a much more rigorous thing than saying better and worse.
519
So we're thinking a lot these days about how we help our customers come into their own domain and get a model that will not just answer questions well, but reason.
520
And so reasoning to help the model answer better and to also give either you or your users insight into why the model made the decision it made.
521
I think that we all want a little more insight into how AI is behaving.
522
And so that's really important to me.
523
The other piece is that the same ideas behind Tau, the idea that DBRM can help you figure out which data is better and worse and how you steer the model.
524
That's also really useful for a bunch of other things you might want to do with AI.
525 it's a way to do evaluation without needing any label data either.
526
It's the same idea.
527
You have your LLM give multiple outputs and you look at which ones are better and which ones are worse.
528
And if your LLM is getting better over time, and that's a great way to tell whether you're making progress.
529
So I think there's just a lot of hope of reducing the burden on our users when they want to build, measure, customize AI systems, and just getting them to do the thing that they're good at.
530 coming back to where we started, the idea that on the web everybody has their own website and they can make of it what they will.
531
It shouldn't be that hard to build a website because the hard part is solving a problem with a website or doing something interesting with that website.
532
And I think the same should be true about AI.
533
We should make it really easy to build AI because the hard part should be going and solving your problem with your expertise and making a difference in the world.
534
Yeah, yeah.
535
Well, I'll leave it there, but I do have one question remaining.
536
The judges, the LLMs that are acting as judges, are you using proprietary models, reasoning models to act as judges?
537
So for judges in various contexts, judges show up a lot throughout Databricks, and it's a combination of a bunch of things.
538
Some of them are doing prompt engineering on top of closed models.
539
And some of them are variants of DBRM or cousins of DBRM that were trained specifically to tell better and worse for a specific judgment.
540, is the output factually grounded in the document?
541
And so,, it's an interesting landscape right now where if you were to hit the Databricks judges in our APIs, you'd see a mix of all sorts of different things depending on what we found to work well.
542
I'd love it to all be cousins of DBRM at the end of the day.
543
But the most important part for me is,, solving customer issues.
544
And,, if we can't offer something that's better than,, prompt engineering, a great model that somebody else has built, I will always err on the side of giving the customers the best thing we have rather than making myself feel good.
545
Yeah.
546
Okay, well, let's leave it there.
547
That's fascinating.
548
And I'll watch the progress of Tau and see how it becomes adopted or adapted.
549
Okay, Jonathan, that was great.
550
In business, they say you can have better, cheaper, or faster.
551
You only get to pick two.
552
What if you could have all three at the same time?
553
That's exactly what Cohair, Thompson Reuters, and Specialized Bikes have, since they upgraded to the next generation of the cloud, Oracle Cloud Infrastructure.
554
OCI is the blazing fast platform for your infrastructure, database, application development, and AI needs, where you can run any workload in a high-availability, consistently high-performance environment and spend less than you would with other clouds.
555
How is it faster?
556
OCI's block storage gives you more operations per second.
557
Cheaper?
558
OCI costs up to 50% less for compute, 70% less for storage, and 80% less for networking.
559
Better?
560
In test after test, OCI customers report lower latency and higher bandwidth versus other clouds.
561
This is a cloud built for AI and all your biggest workloads.
562
Right now, with zero commitment, try OCI for free.
563
Head to oracle.com/slash Ion AI.
564
Ion AI, all run together, E-Y-E-O-N-A-I.
565
That's oracle.com slash Ion A I.