--- METADATA START ---
Show: Lenny's Podcast: Product | Growth | Career
Episode: 35 years of product design wis…
Host: Lenny Rachitsky 
Guests: Bob Baxley
Source URL: https://podcasts.apple.com/us/podcast/35-years-of-product-design-wisdom-from-apple-disney/id1627920305?i=1000712579365
--- METADATA END ---

1
Almost everyone living in a modern economy now is going to have hundreds of interactions with the phone or with the computer.
2
And unfortunately, a lot of those interactions are not going to be great.
3
We have an obligation as product people to put that emotional energy back into people's lives.
4
You have a really unique perspective on just what is design.
5
Design is trying to imagine the future you want to live in and then take the steps to make it real.
6
Saying a company is design-led does not mean it's designer-led.
7
I've never seen somebody grafted on after the fact.
8
It's there at the beginning in the root DNA or it doesn't exist.
9
It wasn't a successful stint at Pinterest.
10
I just bounced off the culture.
11
I came in thinking I was supposed to behave the way I behaved at Apple, which is very direct, fighting hard.
12
Why did you decide to join Apple?
13
I just seek out opportunities to witness history.
14
The whole company is constantly asking, How can the thing that I'm working on be a little bit better?
15
Why do you think that people that have left Apple a lot of amazing things haven't emerged?
16
Today, my guest is Bob Baxley.
17
Bob is a designer, executive, and advisor who's built and led design teams at Apple, Pinterest, Yahoo, and most recently, ThoughtSpot.
18
Over the course of his career that spanned over three decades, Bob has played a pivotal role in the design of the Apple Online Store, the Apple App Store, Pinterest, and early in his career, Yahoo Answers, products that have been used by hundreds of millions of people around the world.
19
Bob also mentors individuals and advises organizations that are working to improve the practice, craft, and culture of digital product design.
20
There is something in this conversation for everyone: from why you should consider having designed report to engineering, why it's your moral obligation to build great products, why you should wait as long as possible to draw a picture or create a prototype of your idea, to what the moon landing can teach us about building better teams and products.
21
I could listen to Bob all day.
22
I learned a ton from this conversation, including a bunch of really unique insights that I've never heard before.
23
A big thank you to Annie Warner, Andrew Hogan, Irene Aug, and Joff Red for Infern for suggesting questions for this conversation.
24
If you enjoy this podcast, don't forget to subscribe and follow it in your favorite podcasting app or YouTube.
25
Also, if you become an annual subscriber of my newsletter, you get a year free of a bunch of incredible products, including Linear, Superhuman, Notion, Perplexity, Granola, and more.
26
Check it out at Lennysnewsletter.com and click bundle.
27
With that, I bring you Bob Baxley.
28
This entire episode is brought to you by Stripe.
29
There's a reason that I've had more guests on this podcast from Stripe than any other company.
30
It's because they hire the best people and they build incredible products.
31
You probably know them for their payments platform, which powers my newsletter, and also companies NVIDIA, Salesforce, and Zoom and DoorDash.
32
What you may not know is that they have several other products that can help accelerate your revenue, such as Stripe Billing, which powers billing for companies that you may have heard of, OpenAI, Anthropic, Figma, Atlassian, and over 300,000 other companies.
33
Stripe Billing lets you bill and manage customers however you want, from simple recurring billing to usage-based billing to sales-negotiated contracts.
34
There's also Stripe's optimized checkout suite, which is a plug-and-play, super-optimized payments flow that natively supports over 100 global dynamic payment methods.
35
There's also a product called Link, which is an accelerated checkout experience built specifically to increase your checkout conversion.
36
Every single one of the Forbes' top 50 AI companies that have a product in the market today use Stripe to monetize it.
37
Half of Fortune 100 companies use Stripe.
38
$1.4 trillion flows through Stripe annually, which is equivalent to over 1% of global GDP.
39
Use Stripe to handle all of your payment-related needs, billing, manage revenue operations, and launch or invent new business models.
40
Learn more at stripe.com.
41
Bob, thank you so much for being here and welcome to the podcast.
42
Letty, thank you so much.
43
Thanks for having me.
44
But also, just thank you for what you do.
45, we are still in early days of trying to figure out how to make software together.
46
I think of it where the film industry was in the 1920s.
47
We've had our talkie moment.
48
We're on the cusp of having our shifted color moment, but we're still trying to figure out how to make movies.
49
And a podcast yours, specifically yours, I think is one of the greatest resources we have for learning from one another.
50
So I appreciate all you're doing for the community and for helping us as a community make better software.
51
Wow.
52
Well, I really appreciate that.
53
That means a lot coming from you.
54
There's so much I want to talk about in our conversation.
55
There's a story that I hear that you often tell, which is when somebody asked Steve Jobs once, what is your favorite product that you've built that you work on?
56
And his answer, what's that story?
57
So I can't remember where I heard this, but I believe the story is true.
58
Steve at one point was recounting the products that he had created that he was most proud of.
59
And if I recall the whole list, it was the Apple II, the Mac, the iPod, the iPhone.
60
I think Apple Retail was in the list.
61
And then he said Apple itself.
62
And when I heard that and when I've reflected on it,, that is the longest lasting thing.
63
And I remember there was also a story that Steve was talking to, I think it was either Ed Catmill or John Lasseter at Pixar.
64
And he said,, everything we make is going to be a doorstop in three years.
65
But the stuff you guys make, they're still going to be watching in 100 years.
66
And so, I think Steve had some concept of the longevity of these things.
67
They knew the products themselves were very ephemeral, but there's something about the culture of Apple that's lasted a very long time, and I personally believe will last for some time yet to come.
68
And it's a way of making decisions, it's a way of behaving, it's a way of seeing the value of technology in the world, and it infuses everything in that company.
69, everything from the checkout system when you go to the receptionist to what it's in the cafeteria.
70, at least when I was there, they had patented the pizza box because they had reinvented the pizza box that you would get at Cafe Max.
71
Because they're just the whole company is constantly asking, How can the thing that I'm working on be a little bit better?
72
And I think that was something Steve brought to them and had them constantly asking that question.
73
One more Apple question, then I'm gonna move on to other stuff.
74
Why do you think that people that have left Apple, a lot of them just a lot of amazing things haven't emerged from people that have left?
75, Humane was a recent example.
76, we're recording this the day after Johnny Ive and OpenAI emerge, so we'll see what happens there.
77
But it just feels there hasn't been a ton of alumni that have built incredible things.
78
Yeah, I'm hard.
79
So, obviously, Tony Fidel would be one with Nest, and he would be an outlier.
80
I think the people that,, I went to Pinterest and did not have a successful time in my year and a half at Pinterest.
81, I think my own particular mistake, and I've seen this with some other Apple executives as well, is we went directly from Apple.
82, I left Apple on a Friday and I started Pinterest on a Monday, and I didn't give myself time to recalibrate to the Pinterest culture.
83
So, I think at some level, a lot of the challenge is that when you, Apple, and it's not just Apple, I think every major tech company, they have really powerful cultures.
84, you get indoctrinated to those, all those standards, and it's really deep.
85
It infuses all of your behavior and how you conduct yourself in the company, away from the company.
86
And so I think it's pretty hard to immigrate successfully from one of those environments to another.
87
And Apple is one of the strongest cultures, and there's not many other cultures that natively operate that.
88
Airbnb is one exception.
89
And so you have guys Hiroki Azai, who leads all of marketing and all of product, and Hiroki is crushing it at Airbnb.
90
He was incredibly successful at Apple.
91
It also should be noted that he had, it was a multi-year gap between the time he left Apple and the time he started Airbnb.
92
So he gave himself a little bit of time to get through the,, at Apple, I think it was Tim or Steve used to talk about the Apple car wash, and that when you started Apple, they had to take you through the car wash and get off all that stuff that you'd accumulated at other places.
93
Turns out there's a car wash you need to go through when you leave Apple as well.
94
And so I think Hiroki gave himself time to do that.
95
And I think that's probably a lot of why he's been so successful at Airbnb.
96
The thing I took away from Apple, and I think this is true for anybody changing from one major culture to another, is most likely the new place hires you because of the values of the organization you left, but not the behaviors.
97
And so I think it's important to recalibrate and say, well, I want to hold on to these values.
98
So at Apple, attention to detail, product excellence,, doing everything you can for the customer and the user.
99
So try to hold on to those values, but then think, okay, how are those values best expressed in this culture?
100
And I was more successful at expressing those values in the culture of ThoughtSpot, which was my last job, than I was in the culture of Pinterest.
101
If I had to do it again, I could probably do better at Pinterest.
102
So I think that's useful for anybody leaving one very specific culture and going someplace else.
103, try to hold on to the values, but not the behaviors.
104
This is so interesting.
105
And I appreciate you sharing that the way you described it, that it wasn't a successful stint at Pinterest.
106
A lot of people don't share that story and don't put it that way.
107, they see on their LinkedIn, oh, head of design at Pinterest.
108
Oh, amazing.
109
So cool.
110
And then,, if you're, okay, but it didn't work out that well, I think that's really interesting.
111
Is there anything more you can share there about what you learned for other people to maybe avoid that situation?
112
Anything you took away from that experience?
113
One of my friends that was at Pinterest, I'm still friends with, he said,, I just thought of it as you bounced off the culture.
114
And I think that's the way to think of it.
115
I came in thinking I was supposed to behave the way I behaved at Apple, which is,, very direct, fighting hard.
116, it's very, it's, everybody cares about each other.
117
It's never insulting, but it's intense.
118
And that's not really where Pinterest was at the time.
119
And again, all this is a decade ago, so I don't know what any of these companies are today.
120
But at least when I was there, Pinterest had posters in every conference room that said, big poster that said, say the hard thing.
121
Well, that's where Pinterest was at the time.
122
And I can assure you, nobody at Apple was having to remind you to say the hard thing.
123
And so I probably could have picked up on that better than I did.
124
I'll say,, these careers are really hard,?
125
And the higher up you go, I, people think of it you're climbing a pyramid.
126
I think of it more you're going out on a branch on a tree.
127
And the branch gets a lot more flimsy and can break and you can fall and you get buffeted about by the wind.
128
And it's often at a time in your life when there's a lot going on with your family.
129
There could be things going on with your parents' health.
130
I lost my mother when I was at Pinterest.
131, my kids were starting high school, so we're struggling with the teenage years.
132
I had a long, long commute.
133, there's just a lot going on.
134
And these jobs are super demanding.
135
Everything around you is changing really rapidly.
136
And you're under tremendous pressure because the financial and success stakes are super high.
137
So I think that people falling off of these jobs is the common use case.
138
That is the common story.
139
We have a bias towards survivors, and we all talk about how it looks they made it to the top.
140
But everybody that makes it to the top, there's hundreds of people that don't.
141
One of the things I took away when I was at Pinterest was I came to think that the job of a startup was to grow the founder so they could continue to lead the startup.
142
And I think what's true for founders is also true for a lot of other folks in the executive staff.
143
It's very hard to grow emotionally and developmentally at the rate that the company grows.
144
A lot of times I think people get outgrown by the role.
145
And I saw that across Apple.
146
I've experienced that myself at different times in my career.
147
I see that happening with my friends.
148
And it feels a failure.
149, that is the human experience.
150
That's what happens.
151
It's very hard to grow as fast as some of these companies are growing.
152
And I,, we could debate the merits of Mark Zuckerberg, for example.
153
But when you think about the trajectory from being,, a kid in the dorm room to,, within five years, he's, Facebook's a big thing.
154, think of your own life.
155
Can you, can you process that level of evolution and change?
156
And,, that's just, I don't know, man.
157
I think that's really super hard to do that and stay balanced.
158
And also keep doing that for so long.
159 Airbnb Founders, I think was Brian's maybe first job or second job, and he's doing it now for 15 years in a row.
160
Founders, it's their life.
161
It's very unusual to see founders move out.
162
I had this other theory that a startup is still a startup until the founder moves aside.
163
So by my definition, even Meta is still a startup in a way that Amazon's not.
164
And,, an Airbnb is still a startup in a way that Pinterest is not because Ben's moved on.
165
It's really, you don't find out if the culture can sustain itself until the founders are gone.
166
And then you really see what's going to happen.
167
Just to close the loop here, one takeaway here that I think is really interesting is that you can fail in a job and things will be okay.
168
Clearly, you're doing A-OK, and having a place that doesn't work out doesn't destroy your career, which I think a lot of people feel.
169
If they're not doing well in their current job, it's over.
170
Things are all going to go downhill.
171
Yeah, your career is not your life.
172, there's a lot more to it than that.
173
And then just to give someone something tactical here, so you've realized the culture at Pinterest, you bounced off of it.
174
I love that metaphor.
175
If you were to, when you're looking at new companies, what's one thing you look at or a question you ask or something you now look at to make sure you avoid that in the future, that culture clash?
176
Yeah, so I'm fortunate at this stage of my career that I usually get to interview with the CEO or the founders or something that.
177
So what I'm usually looking for is: do they have a story as to why they believe in design?
178 really in their heart and soul, do they care about design?
179
Because if I go into a company that doesn't really value the thing that I do, I'm just not going to have a great time.
180
And I'm going to be constantly buffeting up against all sorts of people.
181
So I want to make sure I've got air cover from the highest people in the company setting the culture.
182
In the case of my, again, my most recent job was with a company called ThoughtSpot, and ThoughtSpot was founded by a gentleman named Ajit Singh.
183
And Ajit grew up in rural India, but he tells this really great story about early in his career.
184
He studied chemical engineering.
185
He moved to the United States.
186
Early in his career, he's working for Honeywell, and they did a couple of engagements with Ideo.
187
And as a very young person, he got to see what Ideo did, and he realized the power of design, and he's taken that to all of his companies.
188
He started Nutanix before he came to ThoughtSpot, before he started ThoughtSpot.
189
And so when I heard that, I'm, oh, this is a guy that gets design right from the very beginning.
190
And I've also come to believe that I have never seen a company that grafted design on after the founding.
191
So I've seen lots, I could name lots of companies that I think are design-led, not always designer-led, but design-led or design-centric.
192
But I've never seen somebody graft it on after the fact.
193
It's there at the beginning in the root DNA, or it doesn't exist.
194
And so the thing that I'm looking for when I interview is, is it there at the beginning?
195
Could I get a credible story that tracks it back to that?
196
And if that's the case, then I think I can find a way to navigate in that culture.
197 we have a shared value system in a way that,, as an American, I could immigrate to Australia and the culture would be slightly different, but we'd have a shared value system that I could relate to.
198
If I moved to, I don't know, Burma or China or something, it would be wildly more challenging because the base view of the world, the base understanding of the world is just different.
199
And it'd be much harder for me to adapt to that.
200
So I think a way to extrapolate that insight is just whatever function you're in, get a sense of how important that function is to that business.
201
Do the founders value engineering?
202
Do they value product?
203
Do they value design depending on who you are?
204
Yeah, why would you want to work in a place that doesn't value the thing that you do?
205
That would just, God, that would suck.
206
Yeah.
207
You have a really unique perspective on just what is design that I haven't heard before let me so let me ask you that question is what is design?
208
Well, I'm going to go back to the Edward Tupkey quote that I use all the time, which is design is clear thinking made visible and so i think most people when they talk about design they think of it as the visual expression of an idea they think of it as a team or a function or a group i think of it as a holistic mindset it's when design thinking became big i was always really confused because i didn't know how else you could think that was just how i naturally thought which is design Is trying to imagine the future you want to live in and then take the steps to make it real it's it's living with a certain type of intentionality in almost a buddhist type way which is different from science which is observational trying to understand it's a little bit different from engineering which is we know where we want to go at the end but we're trying to go one step at a time versus designs trying to see some further out future state and account for a larger or a different set of constraints and issues than engineering or some of the other problem solving methodologies so i look at again i look at as a company does the company think in a design mindset and apple does airbnb does i don't get the sense that google does and i don't get the sense that amazon does and that's that's not a critique on them i don't think that those organizations are competing on design in the same way but again i i want to go work in a place that that as an organization thinks in a design type method so along those lines a lot of people imagine every founder every product builder would is just yes i love amazing design i'd love our products to be incredibly beautiful intuitive so easy for everyone to use and understand, but they don't invest in these areas and they don't put a lot of resources into the design process what's the way, what's the best pitch you can make and that you do make to companies to help them see the value, the strategic value of design and the bottom line of the value of design?
209
Let me back up and just dissect a little bit the way you describe design, because you described it in really tactical terms.
210
You said beautiful, intuitive, products that make sense.
211
I think it was something that.
212
So, what you were describing was you were describing the part of the iceberg that sits above the waterline, which is the result.
213
That's one of the outcomes of design, but that's not the real heavy lifting of design.
214
Design's more liberal arts or philosophy or something.
215
It's, what do we try to achieve at a much lower level?
216
And so, when I talk to founders and people about the value of design, what I'm pushing them on is when we can get organizational alignment around what we want to do philosophically, why do we exist?
217
What's the vision for the company?
218
How do all these things ladder up through vision, through mission, through specific tenets, design strategies, and then into actual execution?
219
How do we ladder that whole thing up so it makes sense as a whole?
220
That's the magic of design, right?
221
So, the difference is when you design things, you end up with a bunch of bricks that are piled into a beautiful, impenetrable wall.
222
And if you don't do that, you end up with a bunch of bricks scattered across the backyard, and they don't really add up to anything.
223
And I think that's one of the things if you look,, again, to go back to Apple, but we could also talk about Lego, Leica, Porsche, Airbnb.
224, there's other companies, Patagonia, there's other companies that make sense as a design-centered organization.
225
And if you think about everything they do, it all ladders together into one cohesive, sensical thing that's integrated, makes sense as a unit.
226
And I think that's a huge difference and an incredible strategic advantage because the company can operate with much greater efficiency.
227
They can onboard new people and get them in line.
228,, Apple, for example, on my store that does, or the team that designed the online store,, we had six designers.
229
For a store that ran in 30 some odd countries, 12,500 instances of the store doing billions of dollars of revenue.
230
We had six designers.
231 any other company would have had 60 or more.
232
So Apple's able to operate with much smaller staff because they have real clarity of vision of what they're doing.
233
And the benefit of operating with a smaller staff is not just that it saves money on payroll.
234
It's that you have,, the way the minds come together to create something that feels a single whole is a much higher chance when you have fewer people involved.
235, you don't, I joke about the Beatles, you get the Beatles with four people.
236
You don't get the Beatles with eight people.
237
And you certainly don't get it with 24 people, right?
238 the teams get too big and you just, you can't get that, that what Brian Eno calls seniors.
239
So Brian Eno has this great word that he uses.
240
Senius is the genius that comes when you have a group together.
241
So senius is the collective idea of genius.
242
And I think that's something that's really magical that I've experienced in my career, but usually in smaller groups.
243
It's hard to do with a giant group.
244
I love this metaphor of the Beatles as,, the way most people describe this is design by committee never works.
245
And I love that your example, the way you describe it is the Beatles is the ideal size in,, a small group versus a committee.
246
I just always have to point out to people that there are 20 people that worked on the original Mac.
247, it's 20 of them.
248
That's it.
249
20.
250
Susan Kerr was one of them.
251, you get Andy Hertzfeld, you go through the list.
252
20 of them are on the patent.
253
There's 24 that work that are on the iPhone patent.
254
Now, there's other people involved, but generally there's 24 people on the iPhone patent.
255
And that was the team.
256
That was Project Purple that was doing that stuff.
257
These are not massive, massive groups doing these things.
258
And if you had put a massive group, I don't know, man.
259, maybe you'd end up with the Zoom or something completely different.
260
Who knows?
261
They probably did have a massive group on the Zoom.
262
Yeah.
263
So there's something,, it's the four is too few for what we're trying to achieve at scale.
264
But even if you, if you look at Pixar, any good movie, on this, on the scripting and story side, it's usually a fairly small team.
265
Even when you move into character development and stuff that, it's fairly small.
266
And then it really scales when you move into production.
267
It's just hard to figure out something new to do together when there's too many people involved.
268
I think that word new is really key here.
269
I think when people hear this advice,, they're thinking at their existing company, should we just keep our company small?
270
Should we not scale this thing that we have?
271
And I think what you're describing, which I completely agree with, is new stuff for sure.
272
You want to keep the team small and tight.
273
But as things grow and scale, what's your take on just, okay,, it's okay to have a lot of people on this?
274
Well, you have to bring a lot of people in once you've got, once you figure out what you're doing, right?
275
And so to your point, once you realize you're building Disneyland and you've got the whole thing set and people know what it's about, then they can come in and understand, oh, I'm playing my piece over here.
276
I'm supposed to,, I'm supposed to design the ride for the new, or design the line experience for the new ride sitting in Tomorrowland.
277
But I know where that fits into this larger thing.
278
So I think you can scale once you have clarity of vision, but it's very difficult to get vision with a lot of people.
279
Great.
280
I think that's really powerful advice.
281
It's just when you're starting something new, I had a CPO of N26 who was at, who was basically leading Google Hangouts, the initial launch of Google Hangouts, and he told the story of they put so many resources on it.
282, we got to win.
283
We got to do this.
284
Larry Page or Sergei was sitting next to him, just, we got to make this work and putting everything they could into it.
285
And it didn't work out.
286
And I think that's a good thing.
287
No, no, the more people you put in it, the slower everything becomes.
288
Yeah.
289
Yeah.
290
I want to go back to something you said about what design is.
291
I think this is really interesting.
292
And so the way you describe design, to a lot of people, it sounds that's product management also and product leadership, setting strategy, vision, figuring out how everything fits together.
293
I think your experience here, I think Apple is a very different company where design leads a lot of this.
294
At a lot of other companies, it doesn't work that way.
295
Any thoughts on just how you advise companies think about the split between design and product management that aren't Apple?
296
One of the best lines I ever heard was from my friend Joseph O'Sullivan at a dinner one night.
297
He said,, saying a company is design-led does not mean it's designer-led.
298
And so what I try to hammer home with people is that when I talk about design as a mindset, I'm talking about it as a mindset.
299 anybody could have that mindset functioning in any role.
300
Any designer could have a product mindset.
301
In fact, I think that's a lot of what the design community is trying to get at now when they say designers should be speaking the language of business.
302
I think what they're saying is designers need to inhabit the product mindset as well, and maybe to some degree, even the sales mindset.
303
So look, both functions matter.
304
I look at my counterparts in product and I assume that they are much better connected to the customer, that they understand much better the business realities, and I expect them to drive the roadmap.
305
I may have some points of view on the roadmap.
306
I may offer some critique.
307
I may have my own suggestions and agenda in there.
308
But once they say this is the roadmap, I have to believe that they're right.
309
And I don't try to bleed into their space.
310
I very much believe that once you get into a company, your job is to figure out your role and respect the boundaries between the different groups.
311
So I'm, you guys,, tell us what you need us to do, what the features need to be, when they need to be delivered, what the issues are, and then give us the time and space to come up with a solution to those problems.
312
And then we can work together to decide whether or not our solutions solve the problem as you understand it.
313
But I'll stay out of your roadmap and you stay out of my design stop,, and let's try to get to the promised land together.
314
So I assume that the product managers, particularly in enterprise SaaS companies, my team, thoughts about data analytics.
315
My team didn't know anything about data analytics.
316
We didn't have any of that insight.
317
We didn't have the bandwidth, the mental horsepower to go out and do that stuff.
318 we had our hands full just trying to figure out the UI.
319
And it's,, it's one of the points I try to make too when people are starting to theorize that Gen AI can remove teammates,, and oh, the designers don't need engineers and the PMs don't need the designers and everybody thinks they can throw engineering overboard.
320
And I'm, stop it.
321 we all need each other and we need each other because we need those different mindsets.
322
And any one of those mindsets is just too it.
323
One of those mindsets inhabits somebody's head completely.
324
I just don't think you can simultaneously hold multiple mindsets in your head.
325
So it's not that one of my PM counterparts couldn't bring a lot to the design table.
326
It's just I need you to play that position.
327 in baseball,,, you don't the second baseman doesn't cover first.
328
That's not how it works.
329,, everybody's got to spread the field and play their position so we can take care of the whole thing and respect that together we're going to come up with something better than any one of us would have come up with a loan and embrace the creative tension, welcome it.
330, we still have to all go out to lunch and love each other and have fun together and keep in mind that we're having fun together.
331
But,, I the rub.
332
That's where all the magic happens.
333
That was a very illuminating clarification.
334
Something else that I heard you believe that I haven't heard before is that design should report to engineering.
335
So I'll say that every company culture is different and different organizations work in different ways.
336
In my experience, I think that design is most successful at impacting what ships at the end if design is considered phase zero of the engineering process rather than a byproduct or a part of the product process.
337
So I just think what I've seen happen over and over in my experience at Yahoo, ThoughtSpot, Pinterest, other places,, when you're working directly with product, it's easy to leave engineering out of the loop and product and design can go cook up stuff that doesn't quite make sense technically or is really hard to implement or it's just a bridge too far.
338
And I think that engineering doesn't feel they're a part of it.
339
So you bring them at the end and they haven't really been brought along.
340
So they don't quite understand how to extrapolate from the specs you make into what should really ship.
341
Maybe they don't bring the same level of enthusiasm to it because they haven't been brought along.
342
So I think there's something about having the design and engineering team very tightly connected and living together.
343
And it's not that you have to do that structurally from an organization point of view, but it's hard-pressed if you don't.
344
I also think you can just account for timelines and costs and things better when design's part of engineering.
345
And many of my design friends will push back on this and they'll say design should be its own thing and it should be an independent group and we should have three co-equal branches of government.
346
And that's a solid argument as well.
347
And there's some places where that works beautifully.
348
My experience is that design rarely has a budget or an army.
349
And so it's very hard for them to really hold their own in that a setting.
350
Also, although you'll see people argue with me on LinkedIn about how design needs to be measured and we need to have metrics and be held accountable for a number, I don't really believe that in my heart.
351
I think it's very, I've just never seen a number that you could apply to design that we could reliably affect.
352
So I think it's very hard to hold design as an organization accountable for a particular outcome the way that most of the other C-level roles are held accountable.
353
Sales has a number, engineering has very specific expectations, product has very specific expectations.
354
And although I know this will frustrate some of my friends, I just haven't been able to figure out how that works for design.
355
And again, it can vary from culture to culture.
356
Certainly, there's very successful chief design officers, and we could go through the list.
357
I just think in many companies, that's a stretch.
358
It's just hard.
359
What I see, Work, and I'm curious to get your take, is just product, engineering, design have exactly the same goal.
360
And the more everyone and their performance as an employee is tied to the same thing, essentially, because then everyone is pushing in the same direction versus, oh, I have my engineering goal, I have my design goal, I have my PM goal, and it just creates all kinds of weird incentives.
361
Yeah, look, I would defer to you on that, honestly.
362, you've talked to a lot more people across a lot more companies, so you have a much broader set of information you're working with.
363, if you add my whole career together, I've worked at maybe half a dozen places, but a fairly limited sample set.
364
And every design team that I've ever been a part of, I've been a part of.
365
So I also have a biased view as to what didn't work for me and those particular organizations.
366
I'll go back to what I said.
367
Every company is different.
368
Every culture is slightly different.
369
It's not one size fits all.
370
I point out the idea of design reporting to engineering just because I don't think people consider the possibility often enough.
371
So there's three options.
372
Design's its own thing.
373
Design's part of product.
374
Design's part of engineering.
375
And I think there's a moment when you can back up and make an intelligent choice about the pros and cons for each of those options inside your org.
376
And so I would encourage people to just take a design mentality and put on that designer mindset just for a moment and say, well, what's the thing that we're trying to produce?
377
What's the incentives that we're trying to create?
378
What's the future state that we're trying to get to?
379
And which of these three options, permutations, is going to help us get there the best?
380
I love how radical this idea is.
381
I've not heard it.
382
I think designers will be, you should stop it.
383
Just stop it.
384
So have you operated this way?
385
Have you had design report to engineering at companies you've worked at?
386
Yeah, that was,, sorry, but, that's how it worked at Apple the whole time under Steve.
387
Design always reported to engineering.
388, now I think it's structured a little bit differently, but design has always been part of engineering at Apple.
389
So I saw it work quite effectively there, obviously.
390
It's so interesting.
391
Okay, so say, just to give someone something very tactical to do on their team, say they don't want to go to this extreme and move the design org under engineering.
392
What's something you've seen work that helps achieve similar outcomes with having engineers integrated early in the design process?
393
Yeah, look, I think you have to find some way that you are able to identify a few people in engineering that I refer to as creative technologists.
394
So these are people that can come into what's ultimately a fairly airy, fairy philosophical discussion about what we could do and what's right from a conceptual model perspective.
395
And it's ultimately it's a philosophy issue.
396
And there's not that many PMs or engineers that can sit in that space and be comfortable with the ambiguity of it all.
397 a PM's likely going to come in and they're going to say, okay, well, that was a great one hour.
398
What's the next step?
399
And as a designer, I'm always, well, the next step is we're going to have another meeting and we're going to talk again.
400
And the engineers oftentimes, when they're starting to hear different ideas, they're already cutting into the code and they're trying to figure out what's hard and what's easy.
401
And so I think the trick is at the beginning, can you find a small group of people from the different functions that can sit with the ambiguity of the space and talk through a broad range of ideas to identify the direction we want to go into?
402
And then once everybody falls in love with the direction, then you can go into the more tactical mindset of, okay, well, when we can ship it and who can we show it to and, how are we going to code it and when's it going to go live and all those sorts of things.
403
But the trick is to try to find a group that can sit in the, again, in the ambiguous maybe space.
404
I do think it's critical to have everybody together at the beginning so they all feel they're part of it.
405
And the worst thing is when you bring something fully baked, well, the worst thing is when you bring something fully baked to anybody for their approval.
406, we could talk about this with when you take a final design to an exec and an exec sees it for the first time in a high resolution state.
407
I'll get to that in a second.
408
But when you go to an engineering team and says, hey,, we've been working in the lab for six months and we have this thing that we love it and we just can't wait for you guys to build it and here it is.
409
I don't know.
410 that's something engineers are going to be excited about.
411
They're not order takers.
412, how do you make them part of the process?
413
And,, most every product of consequence that I worked on, there was some moment when we were showing it to some critical person and you could see that they fell in love with it.
414, sometimes they're literally pointing at the comps on the board.
415
Sometimes you're in a meeting and they're just, God, I just love this.
416
And for me, that was always, that was always the critical moment because I knew that,, design can't bring you this stuff into the world on its own.
417, we can't raise this baby.
418
We need the village, and we need the village to fall in love with the baby.
419
And so, until that happens, you're not really quite sure if this thing's gonna take off or not.
420
And so, it was always extremely important to me that you had a few key engineers and some product people fall in love with it so they could defend it and embrace it and enhance it and add to it.
421
And you got to bring them along at the very beginning.
422
What I'm hearing there is there's a big part of just buy-in, and then there's also just obviously more good ideas early are great.
423
Yeah, sorry, buy-in doesn't feel quite right to me because buy-in feels, oh, I've come to agree with you, and that's different from it's a part of me.
424, when I'm talking to teams, the thing I try to tell them is I walk into the office every day with the idea that everyone that I work with is fundamentally a maker.
425, everybody in product design, engineering, we've all chosen these careers.
426
Everybody's super smart, everybody's super ambitious, everybody could have done a thousand other things, but they're choosing to spend their precious lifetime and creative energy creating software.
427
And so, I believe in my heart that they're all fundamentally makers.
428
And the thing that I know about makers is that they all want to make something they're proud of so they can take it home at the end of the day and show it to their parents and say, Look at what I made at school with my friends today.
429, that's the fundamental thing.
430
And they're all doing it from their own different points of view and their own different incentives and mindsets, but they all at the end of the day want to make something they're proud of.
431
And so, it's not a matter of getting their buy-in, it's a matter of them being a part of it.
432, that it's it's, I don't know, it's a part of their soul in a really deep, meaningful way.
433
And I don't, I'm not sure you can graft that onto somebody after the fact.
434
They need to be there at the moment of inception, if you will.
435
Wow, that's a really beautiful answer.
436
I imagine for a lot of people hearing this, making every feature and product they build a part of their soul feels a very high bar if they're building some B2B SAF software.
437
So just, I guess, just thoughts and just how much you should spend, how much time, how many resources, how deep you go on design for all these things that you're building.
438
Say you're building some, I don't know, expense management system or HRS thing.
439
Just, what do you recommend people do in terms of just how far to go with design as a lever, as a differentiator, maybe?
440
Well,, inherited in your question is this assumption that design takes more time.
441
And so I'm going to reject that premise because I don't think design takes more time.
442
I think design exists.
443, there is going to be a design.
444
It's whether it's going to be a good one or not.
445
And I think there's things that you can do so that you're able to operate at a quicker pace as design.
446
If you, again, if you get the tent, we haven't talked about tenants yet, but we'll get to that in a moment.
447, if you create a shared philosophical understanding of the product and what you're trying to do, you can go really fast because you're not asking the question of what should you do.
448
You're asking the question of what would this company with what we stand for do for this thing?
449
And that's a much easier question that's much smaller.
450
So if you look at the companies that have the largest design teams, they're often the companies that have the most ambiguous cultures and the most unclear design vision.
451
When you go to companies that really know what they're doing, and they're clear that this is who we are, this is what we stand for, the design teams are super small because they're not sitting there trying to do all these permutations with color and typography and ideas.
452 they're operating in a really narrow vein because they know who they are.
453
It's very much individuals.
454, when you're a teenager or a young adult, you can spend a lot of time trying to figure out what to wear because you haven't really sorted it out yet.
455
But by the time you get to be a little bit older, you've got your personal style.
456
And so dressing in the morning gets to be a lot easier.
457
And it's the same thing at at Pinterest.
458
I was at Pinterest at a point when Pinterest wasn't quite sure who it was.
459
And so when we were going to do an onboarding flow, we had to look at a really broad sweep of things because we were trying to sort it out.
460
But if you guys,, other places that knew what they were about,, Apple's the key example there, we weren't trying to figure out what it was about.
461
We were trying to figure out what was the Apple way to do this particular thing.
462
And so that moves a lot faster.
463
And I agree,, look, having your soul at every little checkbox sounds a high bar.
464
And in some ways it is.
465
But you also need to, I think you need to be able to back up and look at the product.
466
Maybe not at every state, but, generally, every six months or a year, you need to back up and ask yourself, Mike, am I proud of this?
467
Is this something I am happy to be a part of?
468
Do I believe in this?
469, is it representative of my best work given the circumstances I was in, which has limitations around time and resources and everything else?
470
Is this the best I could do?
471
Or am I just trying to get through the day because I have other goals?
472
So let's follow the thread of design tenants and principles.
473
This is something I've heard about you that you're a big fan of design tenants versus design principles.
474
What is the difference?
475
Why is this so important?
476
Yeah, so look, there's whole websites dedicated to design principles.
477
And if you go and you read it, you'll see a lot of principles simple, clear, beautiful, fast, secure.
478, you'll hear these words.
479
And all these words are great.
480, obviously, I have nothing against any of these words, but they're not useful as decision-making tools because nobody would ever argue the opposite.
481, nobody ever sat in a meeting and said, oh, let's forget clear.
482
Let's try to make it as confusing as possible.
483
So, the idea of clear, it's nice to have out there as a, I don't know, a platitude to move towards, but I just don't help think it helps you make decisions.
484
And so, tenants are really decision-making tools, and it's, the classic one is paper versus plastic.
485, it's just too complicated to reconsider that every time you're at the grocery store.
486
So, you make a rule for yourself, and you're just a paper person or a plastic person, you move on from there.
487
And so, it's that at scale.
488
And the story comes from when they were starting to work on keynote.
489
Apparently, the guy who was responsible for originating Keynote went to Steve and said,, how should we think about Keynote?
490
And Steve said, I want you to keep three things in mind.
491
One is it should be difficult to make ugly presentations.
492
Two, you should focus on cinematic quality transitions.
493
And three, you should optimize for innovation over PowerPoint compatibility.
494
And if you take that last one in particular, if he hadn't said, we're going to go this way instead of that way, that team would have spent the next 10 years gouging each other's eyes out over whether they should try to go for PowerPoint compatibility or innovation.
495
And so, when I was at ThoughtSpot, I realized pretty early on that I wasn't going to be able to have any command and control over everything that was going to happen in the product.
496
There was too many people involved, too many engineering teams, most of them were in India.
497, I needed to move from a mindset of control to one of choreography.
498
I needed to try to set the culture and set certain design tenets that everyone could internalize and follow and hopefully then make the right decisions in that groove, if you will.
499
And so, we had three.
500
I think you can't have more than three or four because you need everybody to memorize them.
501
You can't,, they can't be consulting a handbook.
502
And so, one of them was: documentation is a failure state, right?
503, in enterprise companies, a lot of times people think, oh, we'll just put it in the manual, it'll be part of the training.
504
And I would constantly be coming back and go, stop it.
505
Nobody wants to learn our software.
506
Nobody cares.
507
We are just one more browser tab in a world of browser tabs.
508
We are not this user's complete world.
509
They do not want to learn this stuff.
510
Documentation is a failure state.
511
Maybe we can't always avoid it, but we should do everything we can to simplify things so you can figure it out in the context of the product.
512
That was number one.
513
Number two is every interaction should start simple, and the user should have to opt into complexity.
514
So our main competitor at the time was Tableau.
515
Tableau started with complexity.
516
That was their whole value prop: is, we are a super powerful tool.
517
We can do all sorts of stuff.
518
So when you sit down to Tableau,, it feels you're flying the space shuttle.
519
And if you're a professional data analyst,, that's great.
520
That's the tool you wanted.
521
That wasn't what ThoughtSpot was about.
522
We were trying to take data analytics into the hands of what I call mere mortals, also known as business users, people who didn't live and breathe this stuff every day.
523
So our goal with them was they could sit down and it was an approachable piece of software and they could turn on all the bells and whistles and power if they wanted it.
524
So that was the second one.
525
Start simple, let the users opt into complexity.
526
And the third one was the entire product should look and feel it came from a single mind.
527
And this was a tenant to try to combat the natural tendency of enterprise companies to really fragment because you have all these different teams working on, they're incentive to work just on their little piece.
528
And so they think about what's right for them and they don't back up to look at the whole thing.
529
And so we had this tenant,, the whole thing should look and feel it came from a single mind to just try to remind people, how does this fit into the whole system?
530
And sometimes we need to go along and do things that work for the product that don't necessarily work quite the way we might want them to for our feature.
531
And so, those tenants were all, again, they were all decision-making tools.
532
And when we would have design debates, we could just come back to those.
533
Wait, are we starting simple and forcing them to opt into complexity?
534
Are we doing something else here?
535
So, there's this implication in this discussion about tenants: is that you need to be very opinionated.
536
There's a clear, here's what's in and here's what's out.
537
Yeah.
538
Is there anything more along those lines?
539
And are there other tenant examples you could share to give people some inspiration as they think about their potential tenants?
540, it's very context-specific, so it's a little bit,, what are your tenants for parenting?
541
It's a very specific, personal type thing that's germane to your particular context.
542
So, I'm not sure if I have a lot of other examples, and I haven't heard this used by a lot of other companies, so I haven't,, been able to add a bunch of stuff.
543
We tried to come up with tenants for individual features, and we had trouble with that.
544
It felt they operated at the design strategy level, and I just think that varies dramatically from company to company.
545
What I would look for is,, if you're a design leader or product leader, try to pay attention to what are the debates that we keep having over and over where people seem to be digging in and things seem to be,, bifurcating into two camps.
546
And then, is there something we can do where we just settle that,, we just have that debate once and for all.
547
We decide as an organization, we're going left instead of right.
548
And you're absolutely correct.
549
You have to be opinionated, but that's how you're going to win.
550, there's no unopinionated software that's been successful.
551
You have to have a point of view.
552
The question is, what's it going to be?
553
So, I'd say practically,, just try to look for places where it seems the team's having the same debate over and over, and have it once, get it done, and put it behind you.
554
And make it a tenant.
555
And what's why is the word tenant versus principal so important?
556
I don't know.
557
I'd settled on tenant.
558
I'm not even, I'd have to go look up the definition.
559
I was trying to differentiate it from principles because I think principles are just,, it's I describe principles as apple hood and mother pie.
560
Again, they're just not something people are going to argue over.
561
And so I didn't think it was wise to try to co-opt that word and change how people think about it so much as I might be more successful just coming up with a different word altogether.
562
Makes sense.
563
This entire episode is brought to you by Stripe.
564
Every single one of the Forbes' top 50 AI companies that has a product in the market today uses Stripe to monetize it.
565
$1.4 trillion flows through Stripe annually, which is equivalent to over 1% of the entire global GDP.
566
And Stripe isn't just a payments platform.
567
They also have a product called Stripe Billing, which powers billing for companies that you may have heard of: OpenAI, Anthropic, Figma, Atlassian, and over 300,000 other companies.
568
Stripe Billing lets you bill and manage customers no matter your pricing model.
569
From simple recurring billing to usage-based billing to sales-negotiated contracts.
570
Collect and retain more revenue, automate revenue management workflows, and accept payments globally.
571
Use Stripe to handle all of your payment-related needs, including billing, revenue operations, checkout flows, or simply launching or inventing new business models.
572
Learn all the ways that Stripe can grow revenue for your business at stripe.com.
573
Okay, I want to zoom out a little bit.
574
And another theme that came up a bunch when I asked people about you and how you think is that you have a really strong feeling that building great product and building successful product is a moral obligation of people that are in tech.
575
Talk about why you feel that way and what that even means.
576
Well, look, the example I use mostly is if you go to an airport and you look around, you'll see a lot of people using their phone to navigate that system.
577, they're trying to figure out where their gate is, what time their flight's on, whether or not they can pull up their boarding pass, et cetera.
578
And just watch people.
579
Watch their faces.
580
Watch the level of confusion and frustration.
581
Some of them are tech superheroes you and me and most of your listeners, but a lot of them are just mere mortals and they're not living and breathing this stuff all the time.
582
And a lot of times they're super frustrated.
583
And then take that and scale it out to their entire day.
584
And almost everyone living in a modern economy now is going to have hundreds of interactions with the phone or with the computer.
585
And a lot of those interactions are going to be consequential.
586
And unfortunately, a lot of those interactions are not going to be great.
587
They're going to be confusing and frustrating.
588
And when I'm speaking to live audiences, I often ask people,, okay, please raise your hand if you've had a frustrating or confusing experience with software in the last month.
589
And obviously, yeah, every hand goes up.
590
Okay, how about so far this week?
591
Most of all the hands stay up.
592
I'm, okay, how about so far today?
593
And most of the hands stay up.
594
And it's often that I speak in the morning, I'm, okay, everybody's had a frustrating experience with software.
595
It's 10 o'clock in the morning.
596, that's a problem, people, because each one of those interactions, it takes a little bit of energy away from you.
597
And it ramps your frustration just a little bit.
598
And the bummer about software, both for the audience and for the creators, is that it's an anonymous medium.
599, nobody gets to see who's making these things.
600
You and I, together, we might be able to name six designers that have worked on products we care about.
601
And the only reason we could do that is because I'm a designer and I know a bunch of them.
602
By yourself, I'd be surprised if you could name more than a handful.
603
So,, and again, we work in tech.
604
So, if you think about the billions of people out there that don't work in tech, to them, these products are just these crazy, faceless things created by a bunch of people,, who knows where.
605
And these products are causing them untold amounts of frustration and confusion.
606
And it just takes away from their life quality.
607
And they, I think we have an obligation as product people to put that emotional energy back into people's lives.
608, they don't want to try to figure out how to navigate our login screens or go through our onboarding process.
609
They just want to get home and spend time with their families and pet their dogs and have a nice dinner.
610, I just think every time we make a demand on the audience, that's a failure on our part.
611
And so I do think it comes, I cast it in a moral way.
612
And I talk about it that way because I don't think many people working in the industry understand the scale of what they're doing.
613
Again, because it's an anonymous field.
614, we never see anybody on the other side of the glass.
615
But I think with this podcast, it'll go out to hundreds of thousands of people.
616, if you and I saw all the people that will potentially listen to this in one place, we would think to ourselves, oh my goodness, that's a lot of people.
617
And we might think of it differently.
618
We might behave differently.
619, my team at Apple, but also my friends that are working at Facebook or Google or wherever, it's very hard to really understand that they're creating something in Figma on their computer that's going to be interacted with by billions of people thousands and thousands of times.
620
And if you lose sight of that, I think you just, I don't know, you get sloppy and disrespectful is the wrong word, but I think you just lose sight of how much impact you're having on other people.
621
Wow, that's really inspiring.
622
That makes me want to build products and make them awesome.
623
There's so much power to that.
624
I think a little bit, what this makes me think about a little bit is it's random, but when I see someone click and watch one of my podcast videos on YouTube, I'm, wow, that's one person that's going to spend their time watching this thing.
625
Wow, I really want to make it, it gives me more motivation to make these even better and better.
626
Yeah, look, I think you have to find ways to go, you have to find mechanisms where you go out of your way to see people using software in real time.
627
I've worked on products that have been used by billions of people.
628
I have friends that have touched billions of people.
629
None of us ever get to see anybody use this stuff in the wild in their natural state.
630
Maybe we see them in a lab or something that, but I've never seen anybody just randomly using even Pinterest,.
631
But there's ways that you can go, and as a creator, as a maker, you can go and watch people using software in the wild.
632
So go watch, just go observe people going through self-checkout at Target, which is the best self-checkout I've ever seen.
633
Go watch that and go watch it at some other grocery store where it's not as great,, and really notice what happens with people.
634
Much to my kids' frustration, when their friends are over, I often grab their friend's phone and just flip through it to try to understand how people are organizing their home screens and which apps they use.
635
And maybe there's something in there that I haven't seen.
636
I'll ask them what that is and ask them to give me a tour of it.
637 I think we're living in a time where people don't do so many usability studies.
638
So a lot of folks get pretty far into their careers without ever having watched mere mortals use software.
639
Instead, we're relying on metrics and stuff, which is, I joke that relying on metrics to understand what's happening at the user level is looking at raw data from a radio telescope instead of just going out inside and looking at the night sky.
640
So,, you got to find a way to watch the audience.
641
Movie,, filmmakers can go to a theater, they can watch people understand stuff.
642
Comedians can go to a comedy club, they can help start to develop an intuition about why people laugh.
643
None of us have an obvious way to go watch people use software, so we don't really understand how humans process what's happening on the screen.
644
And you have to just find ways to do that.
645
And fortunately, software is everywhere.
646
It's not just desktop or mobile software.
647, there's ATM machines, there are ticketing chaos, the kiosks, there's point-of-sale systems everywhere.
648, go watch somebody over 70 fumble with a chip card insert,, or watch somebody try to figure out Apple Pay.
649
And these are pretty seamless experiences, and still there's cognitive friction in all this stuff.
650
Just go rent a car and then notice how long it takes you to figure out what the heck is going on with the dashboard.
651
There's lots of opportunities to try to develop that intuition of how people navigate the human-computer interaction.
652
And we need to find ways to go do that.
653
An important element of what you're describing here, which I think maybe people miss, is that you're talking about just any software in order, not your own product, in order to start building your sense of taste and gut feeling for what works and doesn't work.
654
And I had a guest on recently, Guillermo Rausch from Vercell, founder of Vercell, and he had a really great phrase of something they do at their company.
655
They have this mission of exposure hours.
656
Increase your exposure hours to people using our product and you could extrapolate that to any product.
657
Yeah, well, there's using your product, but I always think when you're watching somebody use your product, you come into it with a psychological bias that makes it hard for you to really see what's going on.
658
So, there's something about just understanding the audience and how they process information on a screen, not your product.
659 at one point when I was redesigning a checkout system, we did what I called a reality check, which was we held a traditional usability style exercise in a lab and all that stuff.
660
But we had the subjects come through and go through checkout in other products.
661
So, we watched them go through eBay and Williams Sonoma and Amazon or something that.
662
And we learned a ton about checkout, about what was important to them, how it turns out ship quote is almost as important as price.
663 things that if we had been watching them use our own product, I'm not sure we would have picked up on because we would have been sitting there,, yelling at them to click on the button.
664
We would have had a bias in wanting to see the positive things.
665
Whereas if you just watch people that are using adjacent products, it could be super useful.
666
And again,, we work in a medium.
667
Software is a medium, and we need to understand our medium in the same way.
668
Again, musicians go to concerts, filmmakers go to movies,, comedians go to comic clubs.
669, when do people you and I go watch people just use software?
670
Where do we develop that intuition?
671
And unfortunately, I think you have to go out of your way to do it.
672
Talk about more about this idea that software is a medium.
673
This is something that came up a bunch also in conversations with folks that have worked with you, that this is something that you believe.
674
Yeah, you're so good with the research, Lenny.
675
So, yeah, look, so I left Pinterest in 2014, 2016, sorry, 2016.
676
And I didn't have anything lined up, so I had some time to myself.
677
And I was driving up and down the peninsula here in Silicon Valley, meeting with other design leaders and just,, I don't know, commiserating with people.
678
And you may remember there was a very consequential presidential election in the United States in 2016, and there was some impression that social media had had a significant impact on that election.
679
So I was driving around Silicon Valley, and I was just wondering,, what the heck happened?
680,, I moved here in 1990 when the hippie ethos that was really at the core of Silicon Valley, the hippie ethos was still very visible.
681
And you could,, it was very much a part of what was interesting to me about the Valley when I moved here.
682
But,, 2016 is a long time later, and that hippie ethos had gotten pretty quiet.
683
And so I was listening to a podcast about the history of Silicon Valley by a Stanford group.
684
The podcast was called Raw Data, and it was season two.
685
And it starts off with an episode called A Monument to a Dead Child, which is about Stanford University.
686
And it ends with Zuckerberg's testimony in front of Congress.
687
And in the middle of that, they start talking about the counterculture revolution in the late 1960s in San Francisco and elsewhere.
688
And they quote this book by a guy named Fred Turner, I think it is.
689
The book's called From Counterculture to Cyberculture.
690
And he has this quote that is, you have to ask why it is personal computing got started in Northern California in the late 1960s, when at the time, every major tech company in the country was on the East Coast.
691
And the answer is because there was a very small group of people in and around Stanford University that saw software as a new form of media on par with movies, music, and books.
692
And when I heard that, all of a sudden I went, wait a sec, boom, that, that is why I do this.
693
I am fundamentally a maker.
694
In high school, I was a photographer.
695
In college, I was going to be a filmmaker.
696
After college, I went to music school.
697
After music school, I started a graphic design studio.
698
I am a maker.
699
And I realized looking back, I was just hunting for my medium.
700
And it took me until I was 27 to find software as my medium.
701
It's, oh, I'm a maker that designed software.
702
And then when I heard that, software is a medium, that whole concept of what I've been doing with my life and who I was about, it just all came together really quickly.
703
And I realized, oh, I'm into software because software makes me feel a certain way when it's working well.
704
And what I find so troubling now is that a lot of time it's not working that way.
705
And I remember the first time I saw a computer,, probably a lot of people on listening to the show can remember maybe the first time they saw a desktop computer, probably the first time they saw Pension Zoom on a phone.
706
You remember all that stuff?
707, it was just freaking magic, man.
708, it was the future.
709
It was so cool.
710
And it just felt the most amazing Aurora Borealis or Sunrise or whatever.
711
There was a sense of awe and wonder that filled me and probably a lot of listeners.
712, that's probably the thing that motivated you to be in the field.
713
And so I realized software is a medium because there's an emotional component to it.
714, a hammer and saw, I don't, they're not really pulling out an emotion for me.
715 maybe there's some if you're a carpenter, but I don't naturally have an emotion with kitchen tools or,, things that I think even more sophisticated tools calculators and pulleys, I still don't have an emotional response to them.
716
But every piece of software I have an emotional response to.
717
I either feel confused or empowered.
718, I feel my world's gotten bigger or my world's gotten smaller.
719 they all have an emotional component.
720
And I think once you realize and accept that, then you can say, oh, there is an emotional component to what we're doing with this product.
721
I could just leave that to chance, which is what most people do.
722
Or I could try to be conscious of it and we could try to bring that into our conception of what the product's about and try to be purposeful in the emotion we're trying to elicit from the user.
723
And I think that's where design, and particularly visual design, can have a huge impact.
724
So, again, in many conversations that I'd have in design reviews, some executive would go, I don't know, ultimately, this just comes down to a matter of opinion, right?
725
And I was always, no, it does not.
726, whether we choose blue or red is going to elicit a certain emotional response from the user.
727
What is it we want them to feel?
728
And then let's make sure that we design something visually that evokes that emotion.
729
So, again, I think once you really get your head around the fact that there are people on the other side of the glass, real life human beings having emotional moments,, with the thing that you're putting in their hand and that they're focusing their attention on.
730, you are in those moments.
731
And are you going to own it and show up and be the person you want to be in those moments or not?
732, a few months ago, I guess a little longer ago, I was talking to the team at Toast, who makes the handheld point-of-sale stuff that they use in restaurants.
733
And the thing I was trying to tell them is whether or not you see it this very,, tonight, you're going to be at dinner with a few hundred thousand people all across the country.
734
And if we take just one example,, you're going to be at a very nice diner with a grandmother and her two teenage sons in Ohio, and the check's going to come, and the wager, the waiter, the waitress, is going to hand over the device to that grandmother because she wants to pick up the bill.
735
And you have the opportunity to either make her look a superhero because she knows what she's doing, or to make her look a fool, and one of her teenage grandsons is going to grab the device and do it for her.
736
You're at the dinner table.
737
What are you going to do for grandma?
738
You're going to show up as well as you can, or are you going to just let this whole thing fall apart because you didn't think hard enough about grandma?
739
And that's true for Toast.
740
That's true for every product any of us are working on all the time.
741
This is so interesting and fascinating and inspiring.
742
I was going to ask how you use this insight that software is the most powerful medium, media, more than even TV and movies.
743
And you shared it, which I think is really important.
744
So just to double down on this, is the advice here is think about the emotion you want the user of your software to have as you're starting the design process.
745
Not just what do you want them to do?
746
How do you want, how fast do you want them to get to this flow?
747
It's what's the emotion you want them to have.
748
Yeah, I often don't think about what I want them to do.
749
I just think that's a selfish way to think about it.
750, I they have something they want to do.
751 I'm trying to help them.
752 I'm not, I just don't ever approach these things of the user something for me to exploit and take advantage of and manipulate.
753
I know there's people that do approach it that way, which I think is a little unfortunate, but I just, as a designer, I guess I have my own set of values, my own compass on these things that push me in a certain way of thinking about it.
754
And so I'm constantly asking what's the right thing for the user.
755
And I believe in my heart that if we prioritize that, wonderful things will happen for all the metrics, including the money metrics that matter.
756
I've never seen a product be successful that used metrics as a driver for what they were doing.
757
I've seen a lot of companies be really successful seeing metrics as a consequence and a way to evaluate the quality of their decisions and then using those to triangulate and make better decisions moving forward.
758
So they're a very useful feedback mechanism.
759
But I think there's definitely a risk to confusing doing something because it's a driver versus something as a consequence.
760
There's a few more questions I want to ask, but I want to come back to something that I asked earlier that I think is on the minds of a lot of, say, founders and product managers listening to this.
761
I'm just, okay, this all sounds really great.
762
I would love to make these experiences so great.
763
I just, it's going to take us a lot of time to do this really, really well.
764
You said that it doesn't have to.
765
What's a tactical tip or two that you can suggest to a founder or product manager to help them can contain the design process while also achieving these outcomes that you're describing?
766
Well, I think if you can give,,, maybe one way to think about it is a big giant AI prompt.
767, the more context you can give it, the more specificity you can give it, the more this is what I'm about and what we're trying to get to, the more the designer is going to be able to figure out which swim lane they're supposed to be in to produce something.
768
So if you, I think if you're going into it feeling the design process is going to take a lot of time, it's because you haven't been clear in your creative brief, so to speak, which often means you're not really clear in your own head.
769
And I think I have worked with a lot of founders, and we could identify a bunch of big companies who I think got started that weren't clear in their own head.
770, I don't want to,, Yahoo was an amazing company, but if we just look at Yahoo for a second, I worked there.
771
It was never clear to me what the founding vision of Yahoo was.
772
And I talk a lot about vision statements, and we could say,, the vision statement of Google is organizing all the world's information.
773
That's a great vision.
774
They'll never achieve that.
775
That's something that's always over the horizon.
776
And it's been a very useful organizing principle for their acquisitions and how the company grows.
777
Amazon to be the Earth's most customer-centric company.
778
Okay, great.
779
That's a vision.
780
They will never get there.
781
It tells you how they're going to expand.
782
Apple doesn't have an explicit vision, but I might describe it as personal computing can have a transformative effect on the lives of individuals, right?
783
And that, and I think that focuses a lot of what they're trying to do.
784
Disneyland, still the best vision statement of all time, which is the happiest place on earth.
785
So once you tell an employee this is supposed to be the happiest place on earth, then you're signaling all sorts of things about how they need to pick up the trash and how they need to show up on time and how they need to wear their uniform.
786 you're just signaling a whole bunch of stuff.
787
So when I talk to founders, a lot of times they just don't have that clarity of what's the vision of the company.
788
To go back to Yahoo for a second, I never heard of vision, and so I'm not really sure what they were ever about.
789
They stumbled into the directory and then they added a bunch of stuff around the edges, but it never seemed to make a lot of sense.
790
And so I think people operating inside Yahoo,, it ended up being inefficient because they were having to deal with all that ambiguity.
791
So I think that that can also be a pretty big risk for founders.
792
They end up with a product idea and they think that the company is the product.
793
The company is not the product.
794
The product is the product and the company's bigger than the product.
795
And so you need to have some vision that speaks beyond just this particular thing.
796
I think Slack and honestly, both Slack and Pinterest are examples of companies, products that became companies, but neither one of those places really knew what to do next because they didn't have a bigger vision of the change they were trying to see in the world.
797
So, back to your, you were asking a very pragmatic question.
798, I think you need to work on your prompt before you go to your designers and try to give them as much clarity about what you want to produce as possible.
799
And I think if you leave it open as to the emotional response you want users to have, you're inviting a lot of ambiguity, which is going to invite a lot of inefficiency.
800
I love that answer.
801
And it's so interesting that AI can help us work better together as humans because when you find that the AI is not achieving the outcome you want as effectively as you want, that's a lesson.
802
This also translates to working with humans.
803 make the prompt more specific, add more context in life, not just when you're talking to AI.
804
Yeah, I love that.
805
That's so interesting.
806
So the advice here is just if you're finding design is taking too long or you want to just level up your success with your design team, give more context, spend more time on the brief on what you're trying to achieve, and make sure there's a clear vision or mission that everyone can road towards.
807
Yeah, look, design is a problem-solving methodology.
808
So the more variables you can remove before they go into the process, the more efficient it's going to be.
809
And if you give designers a lot of ambiguity, they're going to spend a lot of time spinning around.
810
And honestly, that's your fault as the client.
811, as a design leader, I think one of my main challenges is, frankly, trying to make the PMs better clients, helping them get more specific.
812
It's very common for a design team to get extremely ambiguous asks from a product team.
813
And the problem for design is they have to take all that ambiguity and they've got to wring it all out.
814
So when they give it to engineering, engineering knows exactly what to code because computers don't tolerate ambiguity.
815 engineers need to know what the thing's going to be.
816
And so design gets stuck with a really ambiguous input, but they have to have a highly specific output.
817
And they're often time boxed to do that.
818
And it's just not a recipe for success.
819
So you're much better off either compressing the PRD experience,, and bringing the designers into that, co-creating with product and design really rapidly.
820
But you need to,, you could think of it in some ways as designers are going to draw the storyboards.
821
And if you don't give them a great script, they're going to have a very hard time.
822
Yeah, and then you give,, you can't give the shooting crew ambiguous storyboards, or you're just going to waste untold amounts of money on set.
823
So if you think about those three steps from script to storyboard to production, it's all about getting rid of ambiguity.
824
And so the more ambiguity that can be removed upstream, the faster design's going to go.
825
This begs the question then.
826
You don't want to give designers here exactly, here's the thing we're designing, make it really great and pretty.
827, there's always this balance of just give designers space to think and be creative and explore.
828
Advice there, just how to navigate that?
829
Well, if you go back to my example of the script and storyboard, scripts don't contain pictures, right?
830
There's still a lot of opportunity to think differently and to come up with original things and have a lot of creative input in the storyboarding process.
831
So the script is living mostly in words, which is largely how PMs, how PMs function.
832
The thing that I will say about, to keep in mind for PMs, there's always a tendency on PMs to want to draw something and then try to give a sketch to a designer.
833
And I would caution them against that.
834
Sometimes they have to draw themselves so they can think it out.
835
But,, if a PM came to me with something that was drawn and fully baked, my response was, thanks for giving me that.
836
Now I know exactly what we're not going to do.
837
Because it almost is a point of pride.
838
There's no way I'm going to go execute that exact thing.
839
So you're right.
840 PMs have to give you the space to operate.
841
And I think a lot of what they're trying to achieve could be done in more informal ways, conversationally and whiteboards, things that.
842
But you need to narrow the problem for the designers.
843
They need constraints.
844
They don't need a tiny little box, but they need constraints.
845
Think in terms of, you don't give them an airport tarmac, and you don't even give them a football field.
846
You give them something more a basketball court.
847
There's a scale at which they can do their design thing.
848
I want to talk about basketball later, but not yet.
849
You've shared a lot of counter-intuitive lessons on building product designing, building teams, leadership.
850
Is there another very counter-intuitive lesson you've learned about building products, hiring, leading teams that goes against common startup wisdom?
851
The thing I would say is that you should wait as long as possible to draw a picture.
852, and I think that pushes against all the Gen AI tools that help you create prototypes.
853
And there's obviously a lot of excitement around that.
854
I can just give a prompt, and the AI is going to crank out a UI for me.
855
So I don't think I'm using the term right, but I had this idea from art that I call the primal mark.
856
And that's the first mark that you make on the canvas.
857
And once you make that mark on the canvas, everything you do after that is in response to that mark.
858
It sets your baseline.
859
And so for me, I always felt that as soon as we drew a picture that looked even remotely real, everybody gravitated towards that and said, oh, that's the thing.
860
And people are so uncomfortable with ambiguity that they can't really deal with the tension of, well, that might not be the thing.
861
And so as soon as you draw a picture that looks even slightly realistic, much less something that comes out of one of these Gen IA tools,, everybody goes, oh, that's the thing.
862
You just keep doubling down on that thing.
863
And what's happened is you've taken the possibilities from this big, broad thing down to this tiny little thing from an AI system that's trained on existing solutions and existing ideas and maybe not even thinking about it the right way because all you've really given is your first order thinking.
864
And so I think there's a way you can stay in these things conceptually and conversationally where you can get to your second, third, fourth idea.
865
And that's where stuff gets really interesting.
866
And again, I don't think that has to take a lot of time.
867
That could be over the course of a single meeting, you could get to a second, third, fourth idea.
868
You just have to be willing to not jump at the first thing that looks a possibility.
869 you get that possibility, you go, okay, well, that's interesting.
870
Let's table that.
871
What else we got?
872, there's one story that's related that's useful.
873
In one of my previous jobs, I was responsible for the public website.
874
I remember coming across one of the product managers one day, and she's, hey, this link on the homepage,, we have to make it blue.
875
I was, well, we don't use blue links anywhere.
876
She's, yeah, yeah, but we just have to make it blue.
877
I was, well, we're not making it blue.
878
And a couple of days go by, and I saw the homepage, and the lake had been made blue because she had got around me and she'd gone to engineering and just made it blue.
879
And I saw her in the hallway again.
880
I was,, what the hell's up with that?
881
And she goes, well, people couldn't see it.
882
And I'm, oh, they couldn't see it.
883
So it wasn't prominent enough, right?
884
She's, yeah, it wasn't prominent enough.
885
I'm, well, great.
886, there's a hundred different things we could do to make it more prominent, one of which is making it blue,, which is the thing that came to you first because you're not a designer.
887, it's naturally, because it's the most obvious thing, but it doesn't fit in with these larger things we're trying to do.
888
So I've often, I try to encourage the product managers to, what's the problem with the thing?
889
And then let us solve it.
890
Don't jump to it and tell us this is what we're supposed to,, don't tell us this is just exactly what we're supposed to do.
891
And again, I do the same thing on the roadmap.
892, you decide the roadmap.
893
Tell us what we're supposed to do.
894
I will ask you about it, and I may push back, and we may have some back and forth, but that's your responsibility.
895
I'm going to trust that you are trained and what you're doing, and you're going to make the right call.
896
And I just want you to give me the same level of respect.
897
This advice about not drawing quickly and not making that primal mark, which I love that term, is I imagine I'm curious your take on AI prototyping tools these days because that's the extreme version of that.
898
Not only are you just creating a sketch, it's, oh, it's working.
899
Here it is.
900
Here's what it looks.
901
Thoughts on that?
902
Do you discourage people from doing that for you especially?
903
Well, I think it's a production tool, right?
904
So once what you want and you can give it a really robust prompt, then I,, I haven't played with it a lot myself because I'm not in an operational role right now, but, presumably it's really useful at cranking out that actionable prototype which you can click and experience.
905
And I've said for a long time that an interactive idea needs to be expressed interactively so we're not talking with our hands and we can really understand what's going to happen.
906
So when the idea is ready to be expressed, I think those tools are probably fantastic.
907
But, ideas start off pretty fragile and the best ideas start off really fragile.
908
And I think when you push them to develop too quickly and you put them out in the world and expect them to be able to stand up to critique too early, you're just going to squash them.
909
I often think about them the little plant in the Pixar movie WALL-E.
910
You've got to give that little guy a little space, a little time, some water and some nourishment.
911
And you can't really just suddenly put him out in the wind and think he's going to make it.
912
And so I think a lot of very fragile, interesting, quiet ideas that I think you need to give some space.
913
And when you jump to the expression of them, I think you're putting them at risk.
914
I'll also say that everybody, when they look at a prototype, what they're focusing on is the visual and textual expression.
915
And so, as soon as you produce something in high resolution, the feedback you're going to get is going to be about colors and shapes and these presentation layer things, which are very loosely related to usability and value, right?
916
It's focusing on the special effects of a movie that has a really bad story.
917
And so, at ThoughtSpot, we used to use what we called block frame diagrams, which were even simplified versions of wireframes.
918
It was just big chunky blocks of here's how the screen could be and where things might be located.
919
And because it was so low fidelity, people couldn't get into commenting on what it looked.
920, we had to talk about conceptually what it was.
921
And so, we were trying to build up this firm foundation where we could go from the block frames to wireframes, to the final expression.
922
And I think it helped us clarify what we were trying to do conceptually.
923
So, by the time we got to the final visual presentation, that stuff was really simple.
924, initially, it made the product team really nervous because we would be sitting in these block frames and wireframes for sometimes weeks, and they'd be, When are we finally going to see the comps?
925
And then, what would happen is because we had such a robust design system, once we locked down on the block frames, we could send it to an agency and they could do the full high-res comps in a day,, because they knew exactly what they were doing.
926
And so, the PMs were always, What the hell happened overnight?
927, well, it turns out that the high-res stuff, that's not the hard thing.
928
The hard thing is the heavy lifting of thinking.
929
What are we really trying to do?
930
That's the hard part.
931
And if you do the high-res stuff, you just really muddy the waters.
932
And I think you end up spending a lot more time churning if you didn't.
933
Again, I'm going to go back to the movie metaphor because I studied film.
934, if you're trying to fix script issues when you're in production or storyboarding, you're going to churn.
935
You're going to waste a lot of effort.
936
So, you, you got to figure out what you're trying to do before you go draw the high-rise stuff.
937
And I think a lot of the Gen AI tools, it's this seductive thing of, hey, let's just go, let's go make the comp and see what we think.
938
I don't really know if you're going to get anything great out of that process.
939
Maybe.
940
That's a really interesting counter narrative because it feels every product team now is just straight to prototypes.
941
I just had the C, she's one of the CPOs at Microsoft, I realize there's many CPOs.
942
And she has this concept of demos before memos and just prompt sets within EPRDs.
943
You should just be prototyping all your ideas.
944
And so it's interesting to hear the perspective of maybe it's hurting your ability to come up with a really clever solution versus the obvious solution.
945
Yeah, look, I think at some point, hopefully people just back up and ask themselves, are we producing better product because of this process?
946,, and we're going faster, but faster can't be the ultimate goal.
947, you need to be creating something great as well, right?
948
Something that's sustainable and frankly that you're proud of and that your users find value in.
949
And if you're just throwing so much spaghetti at the wall, I don't know if having a spaghetti throwing machine that goes faster is,,, look, there's a counter argument that's,, you can say, oh, it's Darwinian evolution, and we're just going to spin through a bunch of random mutations and see what,, what happens.
950
And I used to joke that,, it's true that,, if you take a bunch of hydrogen atoms and give them 14 billion years, you could end up with a tiger.
951
But you don't know you're going to get a tiger and you could get a six-headed shrimp instead.
952
And you don't really know when it's going to ship.
953
So I'm not exactly sure Darwinian evolution is the way we create great product.
954
But a lot of companies are making a run at it.
955
I want to take us to a recurring segment on the podcast called AI Corner.
956
And in AI Corner, I ask guests to share what's one way that you've learned or figured out to use AI in your job to help you do better work, to help you do faster work.
957
Well, my job right now is trying to figure out what my job is.
958
And so, the thing I've been using AI for is I've very explicitly been using it as a life coach.
959
And so, I had seen a couple of prompts about asking it what the blind spot was or what my strengths and weaknesses were.
960
I'd seen some prompts about that stuff.
961
And one of them was really fantastic.
962
One of them was, what's an outdated mindset that I'm holding on to that's not still serving me?
963
And he came back with a very polite prompt or a very polite response about, well, given your age and your profession, it's not surprising that you're very wedded to the idea of control.
964
But that's not really the world we're living in anymore.
965
And that's not probably going to suit the thing you're trying to do next, which is writing and publishing and speaking and stuff.
966
And although it's statistically derived, it did come back with a really nice phrase which I've used in your show, which was try to focus on choreography over control.
967
And so I thought that was really useful.
968
I asked it some of my blind spots.
969
That was also useful.
970
I use it for a lot of exercise input.
971
That's useful.
972
And the exercise that I've gone through most recently was I realized that it was inferring these things about me from the things that I had asked it to help me with in the past.
973
So instead, I just switched.
974
I just went to ChatGPT, started a new project, and said, I want you to be my life coach.
975
I want you to ask me five questions a day for the next five days.
976
Let's go through those so you can explicitly become better at helping me with this task.
977
And so we've just gone through that process.
978
And it's been really useful for me.
979
It's no substitute for a therapist or a real coach or anything that.
980
It's not a human being.
981
It doesn't care about me.
982
I'm not saying that you should use it instead of these other options.
983
You need a human being as well.
984
But it's been very good at reflecting back to me things that I think have been floating around in my undermind.
985
And so there's a wonderful book called Hare Brain Tortoise Mind by a gentleman named Guy Claxton.
986
And in that, he talks about the undermind.
987
And sometimes you might have heard this as your unconscious or something that.
988
But I think of your undermind as the part of your brain that's processing information before it gets to language.
989
And then when you go to consciousness, you've turned it into language.
990
And language isn't the full universe of things you can think.
991
Language is what you can think in English.
992
And if you talk to multilingual speakers, they'll tell you that they can think things in other languages than what they can think in English.
993
So if you only speak English, you're only in one vein of what you can think.
994
But your undermind is operating through all this other stuff.
995
And for the computer nerds out there, you could think about it as compiled code versus interpreted code, right?
996
So your undermind is working in compiled code.
997
And it can do a lot of stuff that you can't really do in the interpreted code, which moves slower and has different orientations, and we call that consciousness.
998
So I was feeding ChatGPT all this stuff over the last year or so.
999
And there are all these patterns in my undermind that had been going into that that I wasn't able to express with conscious language.
1000
And so when I started asking it questions, I think what it was doing was it was statistically reflecting patterns back to me that already existed in my undermind.
1001
But because it was putting them into language, my conscious mind could now recognize them and respond to them.
1002
And so again, I found it as a a life coach.
1003
I found it very useful as a mirror back to things that I was probably already thinking.
1004
And it helped me clarify my thoughts.
1005
It's not pushing me in new directions that a human might do, but it's still been super useful.
1006
That is extremely cool.
1007
That is a really cool use case.
1008
I don't know if you heard the Jerry Kelowna episode that I did recently.
1009
He has, okay, we'll link to it.
1010
He's got four questions that he suggests people ask themselves.
1011
The first is the title of the actual episode: How are you complicit in creating the conditions you say you don't want?
1012
And this often leads to a lot of interesting insights about yourself.
1013
And there's an important part of it, complicit being you're not responsible, but you're helping achieve a thing.
1014
It's a powerful word.
1015
Yeah.
1016
Yeah.
1017
And then also, and it's an important element of say you don't want.
1018, you say you don't want to be busy, but something you just keep creating busyness for yourself.
1019
Maybe you do want this.
1020
So anyway, we'll link that episode.
1021
There's a lot of good stuff there.
1022
Yeah, that's great.
1023
Okay.
1024
One final question before we get to our very exciting lightning round.
1025
This is one that I don't think you have any idea I'm going to ask you about.
1026
And so I'm curious where this goes.
1027
This is a story that Joff Redford suggested I ask you.
1028
He told me that you're obsessed with space.
1029
You love talking, looking researching space, telling stories about space.
1030
There's a story that you share about this guy named John Hobold.
1031
Does that ring a bell?
1032
Oh, yeah, totally.
1033
Okay, share that story because I think there's something really powerful here for people building products.
1034
So I should clarify, I am a fan of astronomy and space, but I'm a particular fan of the Apollo program because I view the Apollo program and the moon landings as the greatest peacetime accomplishment of mankind ever.
1035
And I think it's an incredible, there's a profound number of leadership lessons and individual lessons to be learned from that program.
1036
And I've done multiple talks about this.
1037
I could go on for hours.
1038
Thanks about space.
1039
Here we go.
1040
The particular question you're asking is John Holwald.
1041
So, John was, I can't remember exactly where he was in the NASA hierarchy, but he was one of the people that was tasked with figuring out the question of how do you go to the moon.
1042
So, just to take yourself back in history a little bit, John Kennedy, President Kennedy goes to Rice University, I believe it's 19 September or May 1962.
1043
He gives the famous moon speech.
1044
We choose to go to the moon not because it's easy, but because it is hot.
1045
That whole thing, which I also have to say, and maybe a link to this in the show notes as well.
1046
Everyone should go watch that talk.
1047
That is the perfect TED talk.
1048
It clocks in right at 18 minutes.
1049
It shows you how to sell a big, giant, bold vision, the specifics that Kennedy gets into, the way he sets context at the beginning, the technical problems are going to happen, how much money it's going to cost, the way he puts the passion, why we're going to go to the moon, the whole thing.
1050
It is an incredible talk.
1051
It is the only moonshot talk ever because a moonshot has to go to the moon.
1052
And so it is an incredible talk.
1053
So go watch the talk.
1054
But he steps off the stage, and people at NASA are,, we've only recently put Alan Shepard into space, and he just went up and went down.
1055, that was almost a Blue Origins type thing.
1056
That was just up and down.
1057
We didn't even do a lap around the Earth the Russians did with Yuri Gagarin.
1058
And now we're talking about going to the moon.
1059, nobody knows how to go to the moon.
1060
And there were three different options for going to the moon.
1061
One at the time, one was to build a big, giant rocket and just go straight to the moon.
1062
It's called direct descent.
1063
And the main advocate for that was Werner von Braun, who was the main rocket guy in the world.
1064
A little bit of a complicated past, but nevertheless, Werner von Braun's a big guy.
1065
He's got the president's ear.
1066
Yeah, he's, let's build a big, giant rocket, go to the moon.
1067
People are, yeah, the problem is when you get to the moon, the rocket's still super big.
1068
So,, these guys are going to have to descend a big ladder.
1069
That's a problem.
1070
So, that was one idea.
1071
There was another called Earth Orbit Rendezvous, where you send two spacecraft to the Earth, and then you link them up in Earth orbit, and then one of them goes off to the moon, but you still got to land that thing on the moon.
1072
And then there's a third idea called Lunar Orbit Rendezvous, which is where you build a spacecraft that includes a smaller spacecraft.
1073
So, you send up two spacecraft together, one of them is smaller, much lighter, and you use that just as the ship that goes down to the moon's surface and back up.
1074
And that spacecraft is truly a spacecraft.
1075
It only flies in space, which means the engineering requirements around it are profoundly different because it doesn't have to survive re-entry into the Earth, right?
1076
And so, as a result, it can be much lighter.
1077
And it turns out that the whole problem of landing on the moon is a weight problem.
1078, you got to lift all the stuff off the earth, which is incredibly expensive for fuel, and you got to land it on.
1079, there's just a lot that goes on.
1080
And so, Hubalt had come across this paper from a gentleman named Yuri Kondratyak, who was living in Ukraine in the 1916, 1918 when he wrote this paper.
1081
And he was the first guy to theorize lunar orbit rendezvous.
1082
And I try to take people back to that.
1083, you and I could think about going to the moon, but Yuri Kondratyak in 1918 is on the planes of Ukraine looking at the moon, and he's thinking about how to really go to the moon.
1084, he's figuring it out.
1085
And so, he writes this paper.
1086
John discovers it years later, and John's trying to sell Lunar Orbit Rendezvous.
1087
It's not going over at NASA.
1088
And so, eventually, he decides to go around all the hierarchy, and he sends a very famous memo to one of the top guys at NASA.
1089
The memo starts somewhat as a voice in the wilderness, and then it goes on.
1090
There's points in there where he's really emphatic: do we want to go to the moon or not?
1091
And then he goes through all the math of how going to the moon is all about weight, and this was the only way to do it, and there was no other option and stuff that.
1092
He just made the case.
1093
And, and, it was,, he risked his whole career.
1094
The whole thing could have blown up, he could have been fired for going around the hierarchy and all that stuff.
1095
But of course, he's able to champion the idea.
1096
And I think it was another year or so after that famous memo, which you could read online.
1097
It's nine pages long or something.
1098
After the memo, it was still some time before they adopted Lunar Orbit Radio, but eventually they do.
1099
And even with Alan Brown himself, it was very complimentary to Hubalt for pushing that perspective.
1100
So I tell the story, one, because it's just an amazing story.
1101
And it does force you to go back to the moment of, wait, they didn't know how to do it.
1102, we only know how to do it now because they've done it,, but there's that moment of uncertainty.
1103
And I think you have to embrace and be amazed at that.
1104
And it also shows you the power of these ideas.
1105 a really great idea somehow finds a way to live on.
1106
Somehow it just sits out there and it just waits for its time.
1107
And Yuri had brought this idea into the world and it just sat around.
1108
And then somebody discovered it and dusted it off and was able to push for it and it came through.
1109
And then maybe the third lesson is ideas need champions.
1110
They need champions willing to put themselves on the line for them.
1111
So if you believe in something and you've made your case and you can really make your case,, have the courage to have the courage of your convictions and get behind it and fight as hard as you can for it.
1112
Such a great story.
1113
Yeah, I love that you summarize the takeaways too, by the way.
1114
So to me, the takeaways and the lessons here is: one is coming back to your Pinterest board and office, say the hard thing.
1115
Two is be patient.
1116, it may take a little bit of time for an idea to, a radical idea, especially, to resonate and stick and get adoption.
1117
So if you're,, you're pitching a big new product idea, if don't assume that they'll immediately agree.
1118
Also, just this idea of, if you really believe in it, go ahead, go and champion it.
1119
There needs to be someone passionately arguing for this.
1120
Yeah, I'll just add to that one thing.
1121, I think people need to understand that they're advocating for ideas and not for themselves.
1122
And when I talk to a lot of designers, it may be true for PMs.
1123
I hear a lot of people say that they're reluctant to post on social media or LinkedIn or something because,, well, I don't want to be,, I don't want to be self-promoting.
1124
And I try to counsel them.
1125
I'm, look, it's not about self-promotion.
1126, it's there are ideas that you care about, that you want to see succeed in the world.
1127
And so get out there as an advocate of the idea.
1128
It's not about you, it's about the idea.
1129
And, don't be afraid to stand behind the idea.
1130
We've spread a lot of good ideas in this conversation.
1131
Bob, with that, we reached our very exciting lightning round.
1132
Are you ready?
1133
Yeah, let's go.
1134
We added a ding to this.
1135
I that drummer you added.
1136
There's a whole thing now.
1137
Okay, first question: What are two or three books that you find yourself recommending most to other people?
1138
So the three books I'm going to recommend.
1139
The first one's a beautiful poetic book about typography called The Elements of Typographic Style by Robert Bringhurst.
1140
Robert was the poet laureate of Canada.
1141
And the first 80 pages will change how you think about typography.
1142
It will open you up to the wonderful world of typography that we all live in.
1143
You will think differently about every sign you look at, about every movie credit you see, and it will give you an insight.
1144
I think into the designer mindset, when you understand typography, I think you understand where designers come from.
1145
And the best designers I know are just total type nerds.
1146
So, highly recommend Elements of Typographic Style.
1147
Second book, Zen and the Art of Motorcycle Maintenance, many people may know.
1148
Ultimately, a philosophy book, but it's about the concept of quality, which I think is a very important topic.
1149
So, it talks about quality and the importance of how things integrate into a cohesive whole, which I believe is the main challenge facing most software teams.
1150
They create something that's highly fragmented instead of a single whole.
1151
So, Zen and the Art of Motorcycle Maintenance.
1152
And then the last one is a book called Time and the Art of Living by Robert Gruden.
1153
It's just a very interesting collection of impressionistic views of time and how time passes and what time means.
1154
So, it's very different from the others, and it's not something probably gets recommended on your show too often, but I think it will help people in their lives in a powerful way.
1155
I think these are all brand new entries in this question.
1156
Next question: Do you have a favorite recent movie or TV show you really enjoyed?
1157
So, I really enjoyed Severance.
1158
I enjoyed it as a filmmaker.
1159
I was just blown away at the filmmaking.
1160
I was intrigued with the story and the characters.
1161
And I think, as someone who's worked in corporate America, when you understand that it's basically critique and commentary about the modern workplace, there were times that I just thought were unbelievably funny and insightful.
1162
It was definitely interesting watching it with my wife, who was an attorney and hasn't worked in those kinds of environments.
1163
So, it was an episode where some people got disappeared, and the language they were using was all around the language you would hear around a layoff.
1164
And so,, I was laughing myself to death, but she was, What?
1165, what's going on?
1166
So, I thought Severance was super fascinating.
1167
And then I'll throw one other in there, which is not something I've recently seen, but something I highly recommend for everybody, which is Lawrence of Arabia.
1168
Lawrence of Arabia is, I think, one of the two or three best expressions of the medium of film.
1169
And so, when you think about the ability to hold moving pictures, character, story, music, photography, set design, costume, the whole constellation of variables that come to play into a movie, I think Lords of Arabia is probably one of the two or three most complete expressions of what the medium is capable of.
1170
And I think it's useful to think about in technology all the different elements of a product and all the different elements of a user interface and how you can break those down the way you can break down all these elements of a movie.
1171
And how many pieces of software do we use where somebody is conducting that symphony in a really coherent, powerful, full-on way?
1172
I love that movie.
1173
Next question.
1174
Do you have a favorite product that you have recently discovered that you really love?
1175
You're focused on recent, and I'm just going to push back.
1176
No, there's not the terribly recent.
1177
The stuff that I go back to, I'll give you a couple of nerdy ones.
1178
I have a Leica M6 camera, which is a film camera, and I recently started shooting with film again, which I absolutely love because it forces me to slow down.
1179
I always talk about Leica cameras.
1180
They're obscenely expensive, but the thing about Leica cameras is you show up different when you shoot with a Leica.
1181
So when people think about cameras, they think about the quality of the image.
1182
They don't think about how the tool is going to change them.
1183
And when you show up with an iPhone, you're thinking about sharing.
1184
When you show up with a film camera, you're thinking about saving film.
1185
And you're spending more time composing and thinking exactly about the shot.
1186
When you show up with a digital SLR, you just take a whole bunch of pictures and hope something's going to turn out.
1187
And so I think these cameras are a very useful metaphor for being conscious about how the tools you pick are going to impact the thing that you produce.
1188
So, once you go into Figma, you've made a decision about the thing you're going to produce.
1189
If you stay in a sketchbook, you've made a different decision.
1190
If you go into something else, you've made a different decision.
1191
So, I say the Leica M6 with film because of that.
1192
And then the software product I would point out, which is not terribly new, but I think it's worth noting, is a tool called Habitica.
1193
And Habitica is really fascinating.
1194
It's ultimately a habit tracker and task management app, but it's fundamentally a game.
1195
It's a role-playing game where you create a character, and your character evolves and can buy armor and go on quests and things as you check off your habits and stuff.
1196
And it is the most interesting expression of shifting conceptual models that I've ever seen.
1197
So, if you think about a conceptual model, it's the software equivalent of a genre in a movie.
1198
And so,, once you say it's a project management software, you're in a certain genre.
1199
If you say it's a productivity tool, you're in a certain genre.
1200
So, if it's social media, you're in a certain genre.
1201
So, these are different genres.
1202
And Habitica is really interesting because it mixes genres.
1203
It mixes role-playing game with to-do manager.
1204
And so, I think it's a really powerful example of how you can really shift the user's thinking in the same way, movies, for example.
1205, Star Wars is ultimately a cowboy movie set in space.
1206
And when you come to that, those two genre mashups are really interesting.
1207
When you come to a rom-com, you have a certain expectation of what's going to happen to a rom-com.
1208
If somebody suddenly got shot a rom-com, you would, that would not make sense to you in the same way that if somebody made a really funny joke in a John Wick movie, it wouldn't make sense.
1209
So, I think Habitica is just the most interesting example I've ever found: is somebody really doing a fascinating mashup of conceptual models, which is, sorry, I'll stop.
1210
It's just an unexplored and unexploited possibility of software ideas.
1211
I love how profound this lightning round already is.
1212
The point about Leica changing the way you even think about the photo is so interesting.
1213
I've never thought of it that way.
1214
You mentioned Star Wars.
1215
Have you seen Andor, by the way?
1216
No, but my wife, everybody's raving about it.
1217
I've been watching basketball, so I just haven't had the spare time yet.
1218
I have a basketball question, but first of all, before we get to that, do you have a favorite life motto that you often come back to find useful in worker in life?
1219
Yeah, so there's three quotes that I come back to all the time that I repeat in most of my talks.
1220
First one I've already used, which is, Design is Clear Thinking Made Visible by Edward Tufte.
1221
Second one is from the American landscape photographer Ansel Adams, and I've also alluded to this.
1222
And the quote is, there's nothing worse than a brilliant image of a fuzzy concept.
1223
And then the last one is an African proverb, and it goes this: if you want to go fast, go alone.
1224
If you want to go far, go together.
1225
And I think we've touched on all three of those things today.
1226
When we've talked about the resolution of cups, we've talked about using Gen AI to try to go faster, things that.
1227
And,, those two ideas collide in an interesting way.
1228, people think if they cut their colleagues out of the pie, they can go faster.
1229
And it's true, they can go faster.
1230
You just can't go very far.
1231, you need a group if you want to go far.
1232
And just because you can create a brilliant image doesn't mean you've got a good concept.
1233
Go look on Instagram.
1234
You'll find plenty of photographs that tingle your senses from a visual perspective, and you will forget them by the time you close the app because they don't mean anything.
1235
And so we live in a time when it's very easy to produce things at incredibly high production values, but they don't mean anything.
1236
And so they're just fancy potato chips.
1237
There's no nourishment there, man.
1238
I love that this connects back to the vibe coding apps and prototypes that people build.
1239
You can do it really quickly, but it won't go too far, potentially.
1240
Not to hate on those tools, they're amazing.
1241
They are.
1242
They are.
1243
All this AI stuff is profoundly amazing.
1244
And I will encourage people: one of the most amazing things for me about this moment in AI is that the AI we're experiencing has been theorized for well over 50 years.
1245
So there is a vast warehouse of interesting, amazing thoughts from philosophers and engineers and social scientists and people thinking about what is this moment going to mean when we have this artificial intelligence that challenges our conception of what it means to be human.
1246
So there's so much stuff you could be reading to help you process this moment and the very intense and profound psychological challenges it's bringing forth.
1247
It definitely feels we're finally living in the future.
1248 the future is happening.
1249
There's going to be robots walking around soon.
1250
We've got self-driving cars all over San Francisco.
1251
It's really, really stark.
1252
It's a future, yeah.
1253
It's a future.
1254
Well, that's my concern with a lot of the fiction of the future is most of it is dystopian and here's all the problems that we're going to run into, which is going to be useful.
1255 here's robot laws that we got to be thinking about.
1256
Yeah, just to go back to this idea of how once you create an expression of something, people baseline off of it.
1257
I recently got to hear Henry Moticet, who's head of design at Perplexity, give a talk.
1258
And one of the things he said that just really struck me was that people's conception of AI was founded by, was put out there by Hollywood years ago.
1259
So this idea that AI is going to take stuff over and is ultimately, really dystopian and malevolent towards humans and stuff that, it's something that's created by Hollywood.
1260
And we're all, and now we're trying to outlive Hal,, and stuff that.
1261
And so it's just such a great example of somebody put the concept out there and planted that seed in people's heads.
1262
And now we're struggling to get people off that baseline and to look at it with fresh eyes.
1263
That's a really good point.
1264
Yeah.
1265
It's much more entertaining to watch AI trying to kill us all, not just, oh, everything's amazing.
1266
Great job, AI.
1267
Okay, final question.
1268
I know you're a huge sports fan.
1269
In particular, you're a big Warriors fan.
1270
So let me just ask you this.
1271
Say you were running the Warriors.
1272
Say you were the owner of the Golden State Warriors.
1273
What would you change?
1274
What would you change to help them win?
1275, a team, a real team, can't be dependent on a single player.
1276
And I think there's such a dramatic difference in the Warriors when Steph is on the court and off the court.
1277, if you listen to the local announcers, they're always, these non-Sth minutes really matter,?
1278
And, I look at that, I'm, that's not, that's not really a team then, right?
1279
That's Steph and,, it's Steph and the band of Merrymen.
1280
And the Warriors are bigger than that, right?
1281
And most of these basketball teams are bigger than that.
1282
Currently, I think across a lot of places in the NBA, there's a single player that can go down that makes a difference in the organization's success.
1283
And that just seems dangerous and not a team.
1284
So,, I don't know what to say.
1285
I don't know how you replace Steph Curry.
1286
He is a singular,, even call him a generational player.
1287
It's bigger than that.
1288, he is unequivocally the greatest shooter in the history of the game.
1289
And he's one of only two or three players that's fundamentally changed how the game's played.
1290
But I just know for winning, the Warriors are at risk because Steph is meaningfully old for an NBA player.
1291
And,, you can't have the whole franchise built around just him.
1292
I love this hot take.
1293
A great way to end it.
1294
Bob, I can listen to you all day.
1295
This is so fun and interesting in so many ways, on so many levels.
1296
Two final questions.
1297
Where can folks find you online if they want to reach out and maybe learn more about what you're up to?
1298
And how can listeners be useful to you?
1299
So BobBaxley.com is the easiest place.
1300
Right now, it's just a bento site, but I'll get some more stuff up there in the coming days.
1301
Hopefully before this episode goes out, we'll see.
1302
But there's plenty of links there that'll help you connect to me on LinkedIn and some of my talks and a few links to some other things that I find useful.
1303
Just find me on LinkedIn.
1304, I publish pretty much every day on LinkedIn.
1305
That's an easy way to find me.
1306
Yeah, I'm happy to be connected to whoever is interested in being connected.
1307
And then in terms of how you can help me,, I'll go back to what I said earlier.
1308
It's not really about me, Lenny.
1309
It's about these ideas.
1310
It's about the idea that software matters,, that we're making something for people on the other side of the glass and that it's a way that we show that we care and that we should care.
1311
So I wouldn't, it's not about me.
1312
It's about us together trying to create a digital world that we want to live in.
1313, the digital world right now, it's not something we really want to live in.
1314
It's not a place any of us would turn our kids loose in.
1315, you and I talked about this earlier.
1316, the digital world's not safe for our kids.
1317, haven't we done something wrong?
1318
So I just, yeah, I just, I hope people take that responsibility more seriously and try to help clean things up a little bit.
1319
I think we've made a dent in that.
1320
Bob, thank you so much for being here.
1321
Thank you so much, Lee.
1322
It's been a real honor, privilege, and just a ton of fun.
1323
So thank you so much.
1324
Same for me.
1325
Bye, everyone.
1326
Thank you so much for listening.
1327
If you found this valuable, you can subscribe to the show on Apple Podcasts, Spotify, or your favorite podcast app.
1328
Also, please consider giving us a rating or leaving a review, as that really helps other listeners find the podcast.
1329
You can find all past episodes or learn more about the show at lennyspodcast.com.
1330
See you in the next episode.