--- METADATA START ---
Show: No Priors: Artificial Intelligence | Technology | Startups
Episode: AI Consolidation, Biotech Oppo…
Host: Alan, Sarah
GUESTS: None 
Guests: None
Source URL: https://podcasts.apple.com/us/podcast/ai-consolidation-biotech-opportunities-and-world/id1668002688?i=1000710409746
--- METADATA END ---

1
Alan, what's going on?
2
How you doing, Sarah?
3
I'm good.
4
I can't tell if it is a very stable time in the market, like it's crystallizing into known businesses and models, or it's as fluid.
5
What's your take?
6
You know, it's interesting.
7
AI is the one market in my career where I've sort of consistently said the more I learn, the less I know, right?
8
Every other market, you kind of learn more, you know, more, you keep advancing.
9
And I actually feel like that's shifted in the last couple months where I feel for a subset of areas, despite the rapid pace of innovation, all the really exciting new models and research findings and everything else, I actually feel like a bunch of markets have sort of consolidated.
10
And it's kind of clear now who are the likely players or winners in like two or three big areas.
11
And that may change, right?
12
In three years, another new startup may launch and displace everybody, or an incumbent may make a bold move or whatever it may be.
13
But I feel like in the foundation model market, at least for LLMs, there's a clearer view of sort of what's important and what isn't.
14
At the application level, I think it's kind of clear who the winners are going to be in sort of at least the first set of services for healthcare related, things like medical scribing or other flows.
15
Encoding, it seems like it's consolidated into two or three players.
16
You know, maybe that's Cursor or Codium Cognition and then Microsoft's like Copilot, right?
17
But there aren't probably like two dozen companies that are all still competing there.
18
In customer success, it seems like things are kind of consolidating against Sierra and Decagon.
19
So you kind of go through market by market and you're like, okay, there's a bunch of markets where it's kind of clear who we think some of the winners may end up being, or at least the ones who are going to be important for the next two, three years.
20
And then I think there's a set of markets where it's still wide open, right?
21
So you look at sales productivity tooling.
22
There's going to be something really important there.
23
There's going to be some financial analyst thing that's going to be really important.
24
There's going to be an accounting company that's really important.
25
And the question is: has that not consolidated yet because of nobody yet doing the exact right product approach?
26
Is it because the models aren't good enough and the capabilities have to get better?
27
So it feels like there's a bunch of stuff that is still unknown, but it's way clearer than I think it was a year ago.
28
I feel like for the first time in like two years or something, you know, when I first started investing in generative AI, you just went and you packed the things that the people seemed really good and the market seemed interesting because there wasn't a lot of competition, right?
29
So that's when I led the seed run for perplexity or invested in character or Harvey or some of these other things.
30
That was, you know, pre-Chat GPT or pre-midget.
31
Oh, the good old days, yeah.
32
The good old days when nobody cared.
33
When GPT-3 was out and everybody's like, this is kind of crappy.
34
But the scaling law was clear, right?
35
So I thought a handful of people, you know, you being included, kind of, I think, we collectively saw that this stuff was going to be important.
36
But then there was like a period of like uncertainty for two, two years or something like that, maybe three years, where there was just so much innovation and so much change and so much rapid growth.
37
And I think now finally we're hitting a period where at least a subset of things are consolidating back down.
38
And again, these may not be the winners five years from now, but they definitely seem to be emerging as the winners for the next two years.
39
So I think it's kind of a nice breather in terms of uncertainty and kind of having a bit more clarity into what's going to happen.
40
I know, what do you think?
41
I feel a little bit like I understand some temporary physics of the market a little bit better.
42
Right.
43
It's like a race to find the verticals of relevance and then get something to work in a way that users actually want.
44
Maybe you have to go get proprietary data sources that you can retrieve against and like get distribution.
45
And then ideally have users that can create or derive or extend knowledge from that, like the companies you just named.
46
And I think.
47
And then one thing you and I have talked about is I'm actually quite unsure about sales.
48
I like don't know how to think about how something wins there.
49
Like you could, you could go at it from a data perspective or adoption perspective, but it's been a very fragmented market to date.
50
But I agree with you on finance and accounting.
51
I'd add pharma to that.
52
Like there are some industries that are really document driven where you can see something just becoming very important.
53
Yeah, I think we'll see something coming there.
54
Yeah, there's companies like Glunette working in Pharma, for example, that are coming out.
55
Yeah.
56
And so I think to some extent it's been clear what markets will be interesting, or at least a subset of them.
57
It just wasn't clear like who would win and how.
58
And coding is an interesting analog where there's probably four different approaches to coding that everybody was taking simultaneously.
59
And I think some of those approaches will consolidate over time, but also the entry points now seem way more clear in terms of how do you actually win in that market.
60
I mean, before two years ago, there were a dozen different ways you could imagine somebody.
61
And I wonder if the analog there is for the sales stuff you're talking about, where it seems a little bit less certain right now, but maybe in two years we'll be like, of course it was whatever that workflow was.
62
We had a debate internally at my firm as to like what it would take for another new entry point to work.
63
And I think it would take a lot.
64
I'm open-minded to it, but what is still changing?
65
Like you know you increasingly have like open models and little models that like can do real things with code, right?
66
Sure.
67
CodeStrones and I think you'll see more there.
68
Microsoft open sourced co-pilot, we'll see what the impact of that is, but it's like they finally decide they need to fight Cursor for beating his lunch with its own open source VS Code.
69
There's some chance that like making specific workflows from engineering work that don't work at sufficient quality today, like can create enough distribution.
70
That's interesting.
71
And then it's not clear, like you have the sync like IDE workflow and the async, right?
72
And one question is how quickly does the quality of these like asynchronous code agents increase, right?
73
OpenAI with Codex, they made a bet on async, like cloud-based software engineering agent.
74
And then they bought the IDE with Windsurf, right?
75
So it's true.
76
It's true.
77
You can believe both.
78
Yeah, I think a lot of these things will just consolidate over time.
79
And so my view is that the market's going to see two types of consolidation.
80
There's going to be product consolidation and there'll be actual buys.
81
And the Codium slash Windsurf acquisition by OpenAI is the first way to step in that.
82
But if I was a number one or number two in a market and I was a startup, I'd consider merging with the other party if there were the two main startup players, because the real threat would be fighting the incumbents.
83
And so I would kind of get ahead of it and say, okay, let's stop the startup to startup war and let's just focus on moving against the three or four incumbents that we have to go up against.
84
And so, you know, or you could just keep fighting, getting distracted by the other, the other party, which is kind of what Uber lifted for a while.
85
Or, you know, there's other precedents.
86
The ones that did merge are things like PayPal, right?
87
There was X.com, which Musk was running, and then PayPal, which Peter Thiel was running.
88
And they decided to merge because they were like, why are we competing with each other when there's so much incumbent competition?
89
I think both paths will happen, but it may be something people should consider as well.
90
What do you think prevents companies from thinking through that or doing that?
91
Well, it's two things.
92
One is there's ego.
93
Who's going to run it?
94
Or do they want to subsume myself?
95
Sure, I'm the number two, but blah, blah, blah.
96
I'll still beat them.
97
Or what role would I play or whatever?
98
And to some extent, it's.
99
What's the culture and what's the this and what's of that?
100
And often it's just like, just merge it.
101
And if it doesn't work, shut down parts of it and move on with life.
102
Whatever parts, either in the buyer or the seller, it doesn't matter.
103
But just it's again, kind of a who cares pragmatically.
104
Like you can fix it all sorts of ways.
105
Either the culture meshes or they don't.
106
And if they don't mesh, you don't have to keep everybody, honestly, because everybody's going to do very well off the acquisition.
107
You can do all sorts of like thank you packages and move on with life.
108
And then third is sometimes there's dynamics around how you value the things relative to each other for private to private companies.
109
And sometimes the easiest way to do that is you just choose some metric and say it's divisible by that metric.
110
So for example, years ago when I was at Twitter, I drove an attempt to buy a major social network that was up and coming.
111
And the way we constructed that offer is we just took their users and our users, added them up, and then divided the ratio and made that offer as a portion of Twitter that we offered for the company.
112
I think you can do that.
113
Take your revenue plus my revenue, add it up.
114
And then what's the ratio?
115
Or maybe it's users.
116
It's whatever the right metric is for your business.
117
But I actually think you can do really simple things like that and just say, look, fair enough, like plus or minus X percent.
118
Is it going to matter if we just all win?
119
So people tend to overthink those things.
120
They overthink role slash I'm giving up or ego or whatever, culture slash what does the surviving thing look like together?
121
And then what's the value or what's the relative value of the two pieces?
122
Pragmatically, it's like, do you want to fight it out for the next five years or do you want to just go in?
123
Or do you, you know, and then your battleground shifts to the incumbents versus another startup.
124
Yeah, I've seen the simple relevant, like, they're just unwilling to put something inside the overtime window.
125
I think people will feel like it is capitulating, but it's capitulating in service of winning.
126
And so I think that's a big reason.
127
People just don't want to look like they're unwilling to go to war.
128
Yeah, the pie basically gets bigger if you do that because you're focused on just winning the market versus competing with each other, but also your pricing dynamics shift.
129
You're not competing in every deal with another startup.
130
A lot of things kind of shift.
131
And so I think there's all sorts of positive characteristics.
132
Again, people will win in these markets without it.
133
And also, some of these markets are really big, and there is room for a number one and a number two, and maybe a number three, or maybe incumbents, or, you know, payments was that way, right?
134
We have AdGen, we have Stripe, we have PayPal, we have, you know, a dozen other payment processors.
135
It's a very big, fragmented market.
136
And so some markets also can sustain multiple players.
137
And that's fine too.
138
I'm just saying, like, sometimes you just want to say, hey, let's put aside our differences and go win together.
139
Okay.
140
Some part of the market is consolidated.
141
Some could be better consolidated in terms of startups winning.
142
There are areas that you and I have talked about where they feel like obvious commercial opportunities, but people are not chasing them sufficiently, I think.
143
And, you know, we've talked about engineering as one that I think AI will absolutely change.
144
Like, you have a bunch of ideas in biotech.
145
What's missing?
146
Yeah, I mean, the biotech stuff I'm interested in, honestly, isn't AI related, although there's obviously really cool things happening in terms of models.
147
There's a whole separate thread of stuff I just think is neat.
148
I'm not an active biotech investor.
149
I'm the only person to pitch on.
150
I mainly do software, AI, you know, et cetera, type of investing, as well as the companies I've started have largely been, you know, software-growing companies.
151
I just think there's some really cool stuff now that the science in biotech is far enough along, or in basic science, and that nobody or very few people are working on, right?
152
And I'll give you maybe two or three examples.
153
One is there's some really good data now for fertility out of Japan, where you can basically take a cell, you can reprogram it to turn into either a sperm or egg.
154
And they've made mice now with two fathers, for example.
155
You know, you could differentiate one father cells into sperm, one father cells into eggs, and then you can have viable offspring.
156
And that really opens up the capability for any adult to have kids with any other adult.
157
So if a woman is over a certain age, she can suddenly produce either sperm or egg.
158
You know, you can do it for different types of couples.
159
So there's stuff like that where you're like, why are so few people working on this?
160
An even simpler version is just, you know, girls are born with one to two million oocytes, which are egg cells.
161
By puberty, they end up with about 300,000, and then there aren't good technologies to basically mature those eggs.
162
So if you're a woman, you should be able to mature your oocytes at different points in your life.
163
And you should be able to harvest tons and tons of eggs if you ever want to have lots of kids, right?
164
And so there's a lot of stuff like that that just nobody's doing.
165
Is the outcome of that like people choose differently the inputs to them having kids?
166
Like the, like, for example, sperm or egg donor market is very different.
167
Like we're all just having kids with Elon, like you and me both.
168
The crazy thing about that, honestly, is say that you meet Elon Musk or LeBron James or T.
169
Oh, no, you could potentially reduce it.
170
Without permission.
171
Yeah, no, seriously.
172
So, some of the ramifications of this stuff is pretty crazy if you think about it, right?
173
But also, societally, it's so impactful in terms of what you could do with that.
174
And to your point, tell me anybody could become an egg or sperm donor in any capacity.
175
But it just seems like it has such big implications, even if you just say we're going to limit it to women over a certain age.
176
Like, you know, something we can, or people who just aren't reproductively viable otherwise, right?
177
It's a pretty big deal, in my opinion.
178
But again, the science is there.
179
They've worked through a lot of the pathways to get there.
180
And now it's like, okay, I know one company doing it.
181
It's driven by a very good founder, but one company, that's it, right?
182
Another area would be you look at Botox, right?
183
People are injecting a bacterial toxin into their skin to look younger.
184
Like literally a toxin.
185
And that was a $40 billion company, you know, one and a half billion dollars a year in revenue just for cosmetic applications.
186
Why isn't anybody doing actual real drugs and treatments for aging?
187
There's all sorts of science around it, there's all sorts of biology.
188
So there's nobody working on skin aging, balding, gray hair, all that kind of stuff.
189
And then there's the stuff that's really impactful in terms of neurosensory, right?
190
Like the muscle that holds the lens of your eye gets weaker with time.
191
And so why don't you rejuvenate that?
192
That's why everybody ends up with reading glasses in their 40s or hearing loss.
193
You know, there's pathways for that or tooth regrowth.
194
Like you have a cavity, why don't you just grow a new tooth?
195
And there's pathways for it.
196
Again, there's a lot of the biology worked out.
197
Maybe there's more that needs to be done from a basic science perspective.
198
In many cases, for example, for dental stuff, there's genes.
199
So why don't we do that in people?
200
What's your hypothesis for why that, why there are areas of, to me, what seemed like clear demand, if the science you suggest exists, like, why isn't it being funded?
201
Yeah, it's massive markets.
202
I think there's three reasons.
203
Number one, the biotech or biopharmaceutical market for founders is very different from the tech market.
204
And the overall market structure is radically different.
205
So basically, if you look at biotech, the last time a $50 billion plus biotech company was starting from scratch, excluding Moderna, which was kind of an accident of COVID, was in the 80s.
206
I think it was Regeneron.
207
And so it's been almost 40 years since we've had a de novo, like tens of billions of dollar company created.
208
And so all these companies are 50, 100 years old.
209
And so imagine if tech was basically IBM versus HP right now, and you didn't have any young, founder-driven, aggressive companies.
210
We wouldn't have the iPhone.
211
We wouldn't have the internet.
212
We'd just be logging into IBM mainframes off of HP laptops.
213
Do you know what I mean?
214
There'd be no like progress or very little progress.
215
So that's one issue.
216
The funding models also are ones that a lot of biotech money is either very early stage or very late stage.
217
And a lot of the companies are started as incubations by biotech VCs.
218
So they load up a company with $40 million, they buy 40% of it up front, whatever it is.
219
And then they kind of have to make it far enough that they can get almost public market money effectively.
220
You know, a lot of the crossover funds then kick in.
221
And the way that these funds are set up, because they have so much ownership, they're really built to flip these companies into the arms of pharma.
222
And that all the pharma companies care about or biopharma, it's cancer and it's cardiovascular disease and neuroscience.
223
You only build companies in those domains because your goal isn't to build a big standalone thing.
224
Your goal is to sell it to a pharma company.
225
And so a lot of the dynamics are driven by that.
226
And then there's big regulatory capture that also prevents a lot of innovation.
227
You know, the FDA will ask for, they'll push hard on endpoints for certain things that may not exist.
228
Or, you know, so there's a bunch of, there's, those are kind of the three main factors that make it kind of hard to do anything else.
229
But there's all the science just kind of sitting there.
230
Right.
231
And oh, I guess the last piece, the fourth, is for some of these things, the people who are scientists who would work on them are a little bit, they don't want to work on something that's too commercial.
232
That's kind of the purity of science.
233
It's low status.
234
It's low status.
235
So how dare you work on fixing wrinkles?
236
As a scientist, you need to be doing something that's much more pure, et cetera, et cetera.
237
So there's also a little bit of that kind of, I'm going to call it prudishness around commerciality that exists.
238
I guess back to our regular programming.
239
I have a question for you on the AI side.
240
And in particular, I know you've been thinking a bit about world models and RL and sort of how these things are overall relevant to capability and scaling, the scaling capabilities.
241
Do you want to explain a little bit about what you mean by world models?
242
Because I think, you know, we're people who are in the AI world get all this stuff.
243
It'd be great for a more general purpose audience.
244
Just kind of walk through your thinking and what do you think is interesting is going on there.
245
Yeah, I don't know that this is actually a great.
246
In that, um, if you zoom all the way out, I actually think this is a time of more open research questions than ever, right?
247
So, scaling up model size and training data for big LLMs has given us this like really powerful foundation of knowledge and pattern recognition.
248
But you know, everybody talks about agents, like what people want to do from here, like the way people think about HEI is not just predicting text, right?
249
They want to go to broader intelligence and to taking actions.
250
And like practically, that could be actions.
251
I feel like it's really important to describe what we mean when we say like reasoning or actions for something more concretely, because I don't know that everybody has a great mental model for these things, but it could be like planning or reading documents and drawing conclusions, using tools, receiving feedback, like going down different reasoning paths, evaluating your own work.
252
It's like taking a series of actions in pursuit of a goal beyond just sequential text generation.
253
And my understanding is that the labs have spent, some labs more than others, right, have spent a lot of money collecting traces of humans doing sophisticated tasks.
254
Like this is how Elad looks at Japanese stem cell differentiation research, right?
255
He does these tasks and he calls these people and then they try to do like behavior cloning.
256
Monkey see, monkey agent do, but for software engineering or investment research or whatever.
257
But it tends to be really brittle when you go off the path with the cloning techniques.
258
Model Allod monkey presses some button that like Allad the human never touched.
259
Then people are trying reinforcement learning, broad, like you know, new generation reinforcement learning, which is broadly like trial and error training.
260
I think a lot of people who are paying attention in AI, they have seen like agents play games, famously chess and go, or like more complicated ones with human interaction.
261
You're like taking actions in an environment and getting feedback in the form of a reward or a penalty.
262
And then you like play until you're better at the game, right?
263
And for games, that's easy, right?
264
Because you have clear rules.
265
And so you know very easily how to either reward or penalize an action, right?
266
And that's very different, I think, from real world tasks in some cases.
267
And so this is like exactly like the problem or the expense of using RL more broadly.
268
Like what is the task if it's not just winning in chess or go?
269
And then like, how do you make the environment?
270
In like you're trying to make a copy of the universe, right?
271
Or at least some little piece of it that's rich enough to teach useful problem solving, but like cheap enough to run.
272
I don't know how we get to the matrix.
273
So it's very hard to design rewards and then you have a gap from reality, right?
274
And then you need diversity or just memorizing a path through your game, even if that game is like the game of a lad doing research work or the game of a software engineering project and you're overfitting instead of adapting.
275
And so, you know, I don't actually have a ton of conclusions here, but I've spent a little bit of time trying to understand it.
276
And there's an interesting set of researchers now who, you know, they're working on creating like, you know, more universal environments, world models, or just trying to get better trace data.
277
And so I think this is, I actually don't know.
278
People are like, oh, we can generate games, or we'll have like gaming assets, or we'll use the data for robotics training or some other thing.
279
But I do think it is like really interesting as a conceptual path to more AGI.
280
One thing I think is kind of intriguing in what you said, and it's one of the points that I'll overextrapolate.
281
If you look at the way AI has done certain things, for example, in Go, because there is a utility function but no other constraints, it came up with all sorts of crazy moves that a human wouldn't have come up with, or at least hasn't come up with to date.
282
And then humans started studying and copying these moves.
283
They were completely out of the box, but they ended up with a superior outcome.
284
And so I always wonder what that looks like for other areas of human endeavors.
285
If coding shifted from, hey, let's copy how people write code into let's just solve this problem.
286
How different is the type of code that's written?
287
Or what sort of traditional approaches are just broken that we can then learn from?
288
Because you've created a utility function with an unconstrained approach to actually figuring it out.
289
And that happens sometimes in biology, right?
290
You'll do these molecular evolution experiments where you'll evolve a molecule to do something.
291
And sometimes it'll do things in a really weird way that you just completely don't expect.
292
You know, you suddenly have this catalyst that works really weird or this binding protein that doesn't do it the way you'd have expected at all.
293
And it's because it's not designed, it's evolved.
294
And so I think this whole notion of evolved systems or self-selecting systems can yield really weird insights.
295
And so I'm really excited to see that kind of stuff in terms of the outcomes of that.
296
Me too.
297
One way I visualize this is just like, you know, model is looking in a part of the search space that like humans have not traditionally been taught by the Go rule book or the prior games or whatever.
298
And, um, and it could be in you know, shape of protein or any other problem.
299
Have you seen the TV show Pantheon?
300
No, what is that?
301
It's a TV show about AI and mind uploading.
302
It's a kind of niche animation TV show.
303
You should watch it.
304
Everybody should watch it.
305
But I think it's really interesting because the uploaded beings at some point, like becoming your full self, or at least, you know, for us, it'd be humans learning to think differently.
306
It is breaking through your constraint of like how you might traditionally solve the problem or see yourself.
307
And so, I do think that like thematically is one of the more inspiring things about AI.
308
That's interesting.
309
Yeah, I feel like there's a lot of sci-fi books where eventually you have like upload, you know, your brain is uploaded into the cloud or whatever.
310
And then there are all sorts of controls you suddenly have access to that you didn't have before.
311
So, for example, you should be able to fine-tune your emotions or your emotional state and dial it up and down, literally with dials.
312
I think there's always these really interesting meta questions of like if a human upload were to occur, what does a transhuman species look like?
313
And what are the capabilities set that aren't like a priori obvious that you suddenly expose?
314
I mean, obviously, you can also spawn instances of yourself and have those things go do shit for you and then merge back in.
315
And maybe some of them don't want to merge back in, and then who's the real identity?
316
And, you know, all that stuff.
317
So, it's kind of fun.
318
I'm told that the modulation of emotions and attention actually doesn't require upload.
319
Um, like Fred and some professors we know would say it's just ultrasound devices coming soon to you know a consumer shelf near you, but I'm gonna talk about that on next year's episode.
320
Yeah, that sounds good.
321
It's all Christopher, except for missed things.
322
Find us on Twitter at no priors pod.
323
Subscribe to our YouTube channel if you want to see our faces.
324
Follow the show on Apple Podcasts, Spotify, or wherever you listen.
325
That way you get a new episode every week.
326
And sign up for emails or find transcripts for every episode at no-priors.com.