--- METADATA START ---
Show: The Generalist
Episode: Antimemetics: Why Some Ideas R…
Host: Mario 
Guests: Nadia Asparouhova
Source URL: https://podcasts.apple.com/us/podcast/antimemetics-why-some-ideas-resist-spreading-nadia/id1805868710?i=1000712259995
--- METADATA END ---

1
If you think about an idea spreading through a network, there's lots of different nodes.
2
People are nodes, so each of us is a node in our network.
3
And so you might receive an idea and you are currently infected with the idea, but you're not expressing it or sharing symptoms to other people.
4
So that's a sweet spot where anti-mimetic ideas come live.
5
When someone has become really infected by an idea, they need to express it by all means necessary, right?
6
I think that's a beautiful thing.
7
I want to step aside and just let that person go to town with whatever is in their heads.
8
I loved also the notion of the super meme as something you should be quite wary of because it is something so absorbing that it will suck so much of your attention if you let it.
9
I see it in my group chats and stuff.
10
I'm sure you do too, where it's some new seed of a thing is starting to work its way in and then suddenly it's taking over and then that's all people are talking about.
11
And so I think it's worth at least recognizing the shape of the thing to say, do I care about this thing or is it just shaped in a way that is very alluring to me?
12
Hey, I'm Mario and this is the Generalist Podcast.
13
You might have heard the saying, the future is already here.
14
It's just not evenly distributed.
15
I created this show to bring you conversations with founders, investors, and thinkers who see unusual pockets of the future before the rest of the world.
16
Today, I'm speaking with Nadia Asparova, a writer and researcher, about her new book, Anti-Mimetics: Why Some Ideas Resist Spreading.
17
It's an excellent, thoughtful analysis of how new ideas are born, why some go viral, and others fade into obscurity.
18
And as you'll hear, Nadia possesses a rare gift for translating the dynamics underpinning our digital world.
19
In our conversation, we discuss a number of different topics, including one, the epidemiology of ideas, how virus- transmission models explain why some consequential concepts remain hidden.
20
Two, how digital spaces have evolved from public forums to cloistered group chats, creating environments where ideas mutate rapidly and unpredictably.
21
And three, the surprising value of being cringy, why our fear of embarrassment blocks intellectual biodiversity.
22
As someone who's been quietly fascinated with many of the concepts Nadia explores from memory palaces to the mechanics of idea transmission, this conversation gave me an entirely new vocabulary for understanding how information moves through our networked, hyper-connected world.
23
This podcast is new, so if you enjoy this episode, please consider subscribing and joining us for future conversations.
24
Now, here's my discussion with Nadia Osparova.
25
This episode is brought to you by WorkOS.
26
What do companies OpenAI, Cursor, Perplexity, Webflow, Plaid, and Vercel all have in common?
27
They use WorkOS to power enterprise features single sign-on, direct resync, and multi-factor authentication.
28
WorkOS is set apart by its modern APIs and SDKs for seamless enterprise integrations.
29
Plus, it's free to get started.
30
Whether you're a scrappy startup or rapidly scaling, WorkOS has the solutions you need to secure enterprise deals.
31
Future-proof your authentication stack with the identity layer best suited to meet the evolving demands of enterprise environments.
32
Find out how at workOS.com.
33
This episode is brought to you by Brex.
34
Fred Adler, the influential venture capitalist of the 1970s, was known for displaying decorative pillows in his office that featured a signature business philosophy: Corporate happiness is positive cash flow.
35
In today's post-SERP environment, Adler's wisdom feels particularly relevant as founders need to make every dollar work harder.
36
That's exactly what Brex delivers.
37
Their modern finance platform was built specifically for startups yours and designed to help extend your runway when capital efficiency matters most.
38
With Brex, you get global corporate cards with up to 20x higher credit limits and no personal guarantee required.
39
Their banking solution has no minimums and no transaction fees, while letting you earn high yield from day one with same-day liquidity.
40
Best of all, Brex knows you were born to build, not juggle spreadsheets and finance tools.
41
Their AI-powered platform brings cards, banking, expense management, and travel all in one place.
42
It's simple, scalable, and designed to get you back to what you do best: building.
43
More than 30,000 companies, including one in three U.S.
44
venture-backed startups, trust Brex to help make every dollar count toward their mission.
45
Join them at brex.com/slash Mario.
46
Nadia, it is so lovely to have you here today.
47
I've been really excited to talk about your new book.
48
Thanks for having me.
49
I would say that my favorite sorts of people are often difficult to describe, and so I think I could describe you maybe as a writer or a technologist or a researcher.
50
But for folks who maybe aren't familiar with your writing about open source and protocols, how would you describe what it is that you do?
51
I think you stole all the nouns that I was going to use.
52
Okay, great.
53
Yeah, I usually say that I'm a writer and a researcher.
54
I just poking around on things that are interesting to me.
55
I tend to look for things that are still an undefined topic, something that's just emerging, something lacking a descriptive framework.
56
That has definitely taken me down a lot of different rabbit holes.
57
Generally interested in things that have an anthropological component to them, trying to understand how people work.
58
But yeah, I'd say pretty wide-ranging set of interests.
59
I definitely, I wouldn't have known to apply the anthropological lens, but I definitely see that now having read your work.
60
And yeah, you don't need me to say this, but I think you just have such a talent for analyzing the dynamics of technology, the internet, how they intersect with people, and creating really valuable language around that.
61
And I think that's something you do so well in this book, which is Antimimetics: Why Some Ideas Resist Spreading.
62
And so, yeah, I just wanted to say that I really loved the book and would certainly recommend people reading it.
63
Thank you.
64, there's a lot of things that I'm excited to delve into from the book today.
65
I found myself digitally highlighting it very often just because you talk about a lot of things that I've been maybe weirdly obsessed with for a long period of time.
66, memory palaces, the wall facers of three-body problem, all of these sorts of things.
67
But to really just start from scratch, everyone will have experienced a meme, but in the Dawkins-esque sense, what is a meme?
68
In the Richard Dawkins sense, a meme is, let's call it, a cultural unit of transmission.
69
I think something to point out about Dawkins' work is he is really just talking about the object itself, the cultural object itself, less about why they spread around or anything that, but just looking at the thing that is taking hold in us and making its way around in the world.
70
And we see this obviously,, very visibly on the internet, but it's something that obviously predates the internet as well.
71
Yes, definitely.
72
Yeah,, if you really think about it, a lot of cultural norms, traditions, things that, they pass memetically, right?
73 even the concept of giving someone a handshake or saying hello, these are all a version of a meme in some shape or form.
74
I think the rise of the internet and social media and stuff just accelerated the it just made memes a lot more visible in the world, but the concept of a meme has been around basically forever, I think.
75
Yes.
76
I can imagine,, not having read the book what an anti-meme might be, but to put more precise words around it, how should people think of that?
77
Especially because,, it's not a word I had ever heard of before before,, you and I chatted.
78
Yeah, so first off, credit goes to not to me, but to Quantum, who is a science fiction author who wrote this book called There Is No Anti-Mimetics Division.
79
It's a horror science fiction book about anti-memes as these supernatural creatures that are stalking around on the earth.
80
I'll explain that plot in just a moment, but to get to directly the answer of what is an anti-meme.
81
An anti-meme is a self-censoring idea.
82
So it's an idea that resists being remembered, resists being spread.
83
So if you think about taboos or cognitive biases, these are things that are important ideas, but somehow we just can't seem to retain our memory of them.
84
We can't seem to engage with them for long periods of time.
85
And so in Quantum's imagined fiction universe, these are actual paranormal entities, and there's a division of people that are trying to take down the anti-memes, but they can't remember interacting with them, so they keep,, failing and forgetting.
86
And hence the title of the book, There Is No Anti-Memetics Division, because they don't even remember that they're part of this division.
87
So yeah, I read this book when it came out in 2021 and was just super captivated by the idea.
88
It came about during, I think, darker times in COVID where,, things were getting a little bit weird on the internet, and you notice people starting to gravitate towards group chats.
89
And I was starting to feel, okay, there are some ideas out there that are not spreading through public channels anymore.
90
They're being pushed down.
91
And so in reading the book, I was thinking about how does this concept of anti-memes apply to what I'm seeing on the internet today.
92
And so, yeah, I think I just it's continued to captivate me for the last few years.
93
And I started collecting ideas of,, what are anti-memes in real life.
94
I tried looking for just a more non-fiction discussion or discourse on what anti-memes are, but most of this has come from this science fiction,, wiki community.
95
So I felt, okay,, someone's got to do a non-fiction treatment of anti-memes, so I'm going to be that person.
96
Yeah,, one, as a meta point, I love that pipeline of odd sci-fi to intelligent non-fiction work.
97
I had never heard of Quantum's work, but I found myself so fascinated by the core concepts that you talk about in your book.
98
And there's one creature in particular that gets called out as a creature that almost sucks out the memory of everyone that encounters it.
99
Am I recalling that roughly right?
100
It was an interesting idea.
101
That was the original, so this wiki that the book was built on top of, they catalog all sorts of different paranormal entities.
102
And this whole concept of fiction wiki was new to me and fascinating where people just make fictional entries about concepts and that in itself forms the basis of another universe.
103
And so the quantum, his real name is Sam Hughes.
104
And so he had published the first paranormal entity that was this anti-meme in, I think, the late 2000s or something.
105, it's a long time ago, but he had published this entry saying,, there's this entity where people can interact with it just fine.
106
They can have an engaging conversation with this paranormal entity.
107
And then afterwards, they just have no memory of what happened.
108
You can question them about it.
109
They get confused and disoriented.
110
They don't know what they've been doing for the last hour or whatever.
111
And so that was the original kernel of the idea.
112
You give so many interesting examples of anti-memes in the book, but one of the ones that I found maybe easiest for someone to first grasp is the concept of daylight savings time.
113
I don't know if that's one that you to use, but yeah, to the extent that you want to put an example around it, I think that might be really interesting.
114
Yeah, that's one of my favorite examples because I definitely feel the pain twice a year.
115
I think a lot of other people do.
116
Daylight saving time is something that majority of Americans at least want to abolish.
117
There has been legislation put through Congress several times.
118
Each time it dies before it makes it all the way through.
119
And so we want to get rid of it at saving time and yet for some reason we get all up in arms about it every time we change our clocks.
120
And a couple days later, we just forget about it and no progress gets made.
121
So it's a sillier example, but it is absurd that we keep doing this strange practice where we change our clocks even though we don't really want to be doing it.
122
Most people don't want to be doing it, but we can't seem to hold on to the idea long enough to make progress to make it go away.
123
Yeah, it's a perfect example.
124
It's so it is literally, I think everyone can resonate with that.
125
And I had always assumed that it was something that farmers were in favor of, which in the book you're,, that part's not even true.
126
No one wants it.
127
Yeah.
128
Anyway, the interesting parts,, leading into the book is that you have a rather unusual mind when it comes to visualizing things and remembering things.
129
And it made me, yeah, curious to understand how that played a role in bringing you to this set of ideas.
130
Yeah.
131
So I opened the book by talking about my own terrible memory, which I have only recently discovered the extent to which it is terrible.
132
And so I have both aphantasia, where I just can't visualize anything inside my head, but a lot of people who have aphantasia also have exceptionally poor episodic memory.
133
So if I'm,, I really just don't remember anything that's happened, to be frank.
134
I didn't realize that was unusual.
135
I thought when people talk about stories from their past life, they're embellishing them or they're making them up or something.
136
I didn't realize that people can relive past events.
137
And yeah, I just stumbled into this by accident a couple, maybe, yeah, a year or two ago.
138
And it was a little bit surprising and a little bit sad, to be honest, where you're just, oh gosh, I didn't realize that everyone else is having,, acting from these contexts where they have these memories that I just don't have any access to.
139
But then upon reflection, I was trying to think about, okay, how,, how is it possible I've been living my life even though I don't really have to.
140
Yeah, you're seeming to get around okay.
141
Yes,, life has been okay regardless.
142
And I realized, okay, well, I have this,, journaling habit, which I thought that's the thing that people do.
143
They journal, right?
144
That's a totally normal practice.
145
But I really, really,, kept very detailed accounts of a lot of things that have happened in my life.
146
I think of it as an external brain that I have.
147
And I, yeah, I think that has served as a,, prosthetic or external version of my memory that I can use to refer back to things.
148
But yeah, I think when thinking about anti-memes or sometimes when I talk about people, they have a little bit of resistance to it of,, oh, is that really a thing?
149
Or,, I can't really think of examples of it.
150
Of course, you can't because you can't remember anything.
151
Yeah, yeah, that's true.
152
But yeah, I think I bring up my own example of just,, I don't remember a lot of things in my life.
153
And I think I'm maybe more receptive to the idea of anti-memes because I'm just, yeah, apparently all these things happened to me and I just don't even remember that they were there.
154
So yeah.
155
There's, if people haven't seen it, there's this classic meme that went around showing how people visualize things in their mind and the apple, right?
156
And you're a five, maybe, which is nothing.
157
Yeah.
158
But I was a a four on that spectrum of,, I'm mesmerized that people see it truly in high fidelity.
159
I see a rough grayscale.
160
So I'm closer to you.
161
Yeah, I've met a lot of people now.
162, it's only, I think, in the last few years, someone has,, put a name to it and identified it.
163
And so there's now all these people going, oh my gosh, wait, other people are visualizing things.
164
And I'm not.
165
Yes.
166
It also was so interesting to me that you are synesthetic, which is one of the most fascinating things possible to happen to a brain, which if people aren't familiar with it, maybe you can tell them how you perceive the world.
167
Yeah, synesthesia is just a crosswiring of your senses and it can go in a lot of different directions.
168
So for some people, one of the most common ones is when you see numbers or words, you associate them with colors.
169
Sometimes people have that for sounds.
170
Ideas can conjure up specific concepts.
171
So there's a lot of different ways that people experience synesthesia.
172
It's hard for me to reflect on because it's, again, just something that's the way I just think about things.
173
And so sometimes I'll pause and be, oh, it is interesting that every time I mention this name or this concept or whatever, this image comes up and I didn't really think about why that is or maybe that's unusual.
174
But yeah, I think for a lot of people that have any these strange little brain quirks, and I suspect they're probably more common than they seem, but a lot of people me are just, until someone points it out to you and goes, oh, that's weird.
175
That's pretty exciting.
176
Why are you doing it that way?
177
Then,, otherwise you're just living your life thinking about things in unusual ways.
178
But yeah, I think it's fun too, because everything is just this big blank canvas, and I can just draw lots of weird connections between things however I want to.
179
So I find it liberating, I think.
180
Yeah, no one only until someone's, the number two has a flavor to you that you're, yes, this is unusual.
181
Yeah, I couldn't, I can't help myself but ask if you have ever read about Solomon Cheryshevsky as a case study.
182
I hadn't until recently, and yeah, I was just, oh my gosh, that's a super fascinating, fascinating guy.
183
It's adjacent to some of the things we're talking about here, which is,, a five-fold synesthete, this guy who every sense conjured up every other sense.
184
And he couldn't, he could remember functionally everything.
185
They couldn't find a limit to his memory such that he struggled to forget things so much that he eventually tried this process by which he would burn things he was trying to forget in front of him to see if it would clear clear the mind.
186
Totally wild.
187
I envy his memory, but I'm also, oh, that would be tough if I couldn't forget anything.
188
Seems brutal, yeah.
189
And in a way that that is part of why there,, our anti-why some ideas are anti-mimetic as you describe it, which is maybe we're trying to protect our our cognitive load a little bit.
190
Is that yeah, yeah, how would you explain that?
191
Yeah, I think and with people that have this very poor episodic memory, there's some theory around,, there are also people who hold on to resentments less and are less affected by traumatic events and things that because they don't have an emotional attachment to things that happen.
192
So it can be a really nice thing.
193
If I don't remember my trauma, it can't hurt me.
194
Exactly.
195
There we go.
196
Yeah, I think forgetting can be good in certain contexts.
197
I referenced this author, Lewis Hyde, in my book, who is, I referenced a different concept.
198
He was talking about this concept of a trickster who's a truth teller for society.
199
But he also wrote a book later in life called A Crime Around Forgetting.
200
And so he's advocating for forgetting is good,.
201
And,, we make such a big deal about trying to remember everything.
202
And, it's,, nice to be able to let go of things.
203
So, yeah, and I think the kinds of things that are useful to forget are around personal grievances and resentment or anything where you're not, it's not about condoning something that happened to you or saying, oh, let's just forget it and move on, but about being able to let go of the emotional attachment that you might have to some of these things.
204
I think that can really open people up to new creative directions, new ways of thinking too, because creativity is really all about being able to see things from different angles.
205
And if you're stuck in this one rigid way of saying this person did this thing or this thing happened a very certain way, you are limiting yourself and you're not able to look at it from other perspectives.
206
So yeah, I think forgetting can be a really good thing in that sense.
207
I think where forgetting can be challenging is probably more in the collective context where you need to coordinate with other people.
208
So if you are, if you're in a relationship with someone and you're constantly forgetting their birthday, that's a problem, right?
209
Yeah.
210
But also on,, broader societal level, if you aren't, if you're not bought into traditions or things that a nation is collectively remembering together or things that, it's hard to coordinate and work together if you're not all operating from the same context.
211
So yeah, I think forgetting is at least in my life too, I think sometimes it could be a really good thing.
212
It can make you lighter and freer.
213
But sometimes you do want to remember certain kinds of things.
214
Yeah.
215
Yeah, I was talking to a CEO recently who was explaining that his brother was shocked that he travels through the world with just his phone, no notebook, or laptop.
216
He was, I do it because it just forces ruthless prioritization.
217 I forget basically everything that I don't need to do except the three things that really matter in a given moment.
218
And that was an interesting example of someone, wow, you've structured your life around not remembering some things.
219
Yeah, I love that.
220
I, I think there's a lot of,, people get really into their personal knowledge systems and how do I force myself to remember and surface certain kinds of notes and things that.
221
I have a very low-tech approach to everything where I'm, if my brain is meant to remember it, I write everything down.
222
I keep notes on absolutely everything.
223
But if my brain's meant to remember it, I'll go back and search through it.
224, I don't really need to, there's something that feels artificial to me about I was,, some other system is filtering and curating instead of just my own brain.
225
I totally agree with that.
226,, having things selectively resurface.
227
I'm, I want my brain to figure out what connections it wants to make.
228
But anyway, to come to the idea of maybe why some ideas don't spread, we've talked about the protection of forgetting, but also,, you really go through a fascinating, almost epidemiological discussion of, here's why some ideas spread, here's why some ideas don't.
229, maybe you could tell us a little bit about that taxonomy.
230
Yeah.
231
So yeah, if you think of ideas as viruses of a sort, I borrowed a little bit from epidemiology to think about why do some ideas spread and why don't they?
232
Again, I think there's right now people just assume that if an idea is good, it should go viral or that's the natural path that it takes.
233
And it's only in recent years where we see people intentionally burying ideas or intentionally only keeping them within a certain community and not wanting them to spread.
234
And so I use just a few different concepts from epidemiology to talk about transmission rates and immunity and whether it's symptomatic or whether you're expressing ideas.
235
So yeah, just if you think about idea, an idea is spreading through a network.
236
There's lots of different nodes.
237
People are nodes, so each of us is a node in our network.
238
And so you might receive an idea and it is, you are currently infected with the idea, but you're not expressing it or showing symptoms to other people.
239
And so that's, I think, the sweet spot where anti-mimetic ideas can live, where it's, oh, I have it in my brain, but somehow I'm not sharing it with other people.
240
And so the question is,, why aren't you sharing it with other people?
241
And I think the case a lot of times with anti-memes is that they feel too consequential to spread to the rest of the network.
242
So you're afraid of some repercussions against yourself, if you share it, or you're afraid of harming your network because the idea is so dangerous or consequential or just radical or earth-shaking that they could have these material consequences for other people.
243
So there is this protective reflex for you as the node in the network.
244
You're serving as a gatekeeper of saying, is this idea really worth spreading or not?
245
But just because you're not spreading it or shedding it to other people doesn't mean that it's not necessarily important.
246
It can lie dormant in your body for a really long time.
247
And so, yeah, we just play around with all those different dynamics in the book to see, yeah, how does that lead to different sorts of expressions of ideas.
248
Yeah, you have almost this two by two matrix at one point of transmissibility and impact.
249
And maybe these anti-memes are not so transmissible, but they're very high impact.
250
Yeah, and thinking about that way helped me figure out some vocabulary too around, okay, we have memes which are, I think, generally not super consequential, but are very easily transmissible.
251
So if you think about,, all the links or images or whatever that you're sending to your friends all day, you send it and you forget about it.
252
Yes.
253
It's,, you liked it.
254
You liked it enough to pass it on reflexively, but you're not going back and thinking about what all those links were.
255
And a lot of,, even just social norms and things that, a handshake, you're not investing a lot of time into, is this, should I be shaking someone's hand or not?
256, you just do it.
257
It's just a social repercussion.
258
Yeah.
259
Yeah.
260
It's just the thing that you do.
261
Yes.
262
And then anti-memes are a riff on that, where it's that, as I was saying, just,, it's a highly consequential idea, so you hold tightly onto it, and that means it doesn't necessarily spread as easily.
263
But then there's this other class of what I call super memes that are ideas that are highly transmissible and also highly consequential.
264
And so, if you think about ideas the climate crisis or population decline or the existential risk from AI, and they all have this common set of characteristics, if you look at it, that I think enable them to spread despite also being very consequential, where they have this doomsday quality to them.
265
It's hard to prove or disprove whether a thing is going to happen or when it's going to happen.
266
And they appeal to our personal values and our personal systems, which makes us want to express them because it feels almost a test or an attack on your personal values.
267
So, it's this really strange combination of an idea that is very consequential, but also something that you want to shout from the rooftops.
268
And I think that's, again, has been around for a long time, but it's a newer phenomenon that we're seeing emerge.
269
Lots of little ecosystems that are forming around these different scenarios.
270
Yeah, I loved also the notion of the super meme as something you should be quite wary of, because it is something so absorbing that it will suck so much of your attention if you let it that you can,, let your life functionally slip by obsessed with this concept that maybe isn't the best use of your time or isn't the best use of your talents.
271
And I thought that was a really interesting aspect of that part of the quadrant.
272
Yeah, I feel conflicted about them because it is a powerful organizing tactic.
273, I think war before,, before we got past having world wars every X number of years, but, historically, I think wars did a good job of this of aligning people around a common concept.
274
And so, there's something maybe nice about that to me: of everyone's in this thing together.
275
And I think that's a very alluring feeling for a lot of people.
276
I think we are, we naturally, maybe unconsciously crave that feeling of I want to belong to something bigger than myself.
277
So, in itself,, maybe Superman is going to be a useful organizing tactic, but I think it was useful for me to at least recognize that it's a thing because you hear about the latest thing that I'm supposed to be worried about in the future, and it's very tempting to be, oh my gosh, I really do need to worry about this.
278
I'm going to spend all my time,, I should devote my life to people.
279
Yeah, and people do, right?
280
And there's these,, talent ecosystems that spring up around these ideas, and, someone's out there working on it.
281
But I can see how,, I see it in my group chats and stuff.
282
I'm sure you do too, where it's some new seed of a thing is starting to work its way in, and then suddenly it's taking over.
283
And then, and then that's all people are talking about.
284
And so, I think it's worth at least recognizing the shape of the thing to say, do I care about this thing, or is it just shaped in a way that is very alluring to me?
285
And then I can choose whether you want to work on it or not.
286
Yes.
287
Also, I want to give listeners a note that Nadia did a quote when she said, War is good at this.
288
Just,, that's a good for a video, but for the audio listeners, newmedic warlord over here.
289
Yeah, war is not good, but just from the physics and the shape of it, is what I meant.
290
Yes, exactly.
291
You mentioned a little bit about group chats, and group chats are certainly having a moment at the time that we're talking about it.
292
And I feel reading a lot of these pieces about group chats so left out.
293
I'm, I'm not a part of any of these important group chats, but they are, I think, a really fascinating phenomenon about where social media has has led us and what it means for the way that ideas are produced.
294
So yeah, I'd love to hear how you charted this phenomenon a little bit and how it's led us to the present moment.
295
They're not a bad thing.
296
But I think they started as a response to the overly public, highly memetically charged public feeds that we were all exposed to.
297
And that was, for a while, that was our primary way of interacting.
298,, I think back to early social media days, the things I was saying back and forth to people in public,, you never see these kinds of things anyway, right?
299
So that's just, that's how you interacted.
300
And then, yeah, group chats, I think because there was never really a,, a hot killer app for group chats in the way that you had Facebook or something coming on the scene or Instagram, it was just, this is a messenger function that,, a lot of different existing social media platforms have or they offer.
301
It was very much a utility.
302
And once,, people just started using it, they were using it to retreat from this feeling that I can't say certain things in public because now there's just been this context collapse where anything I say, someone is going to jump in and jump on me or whatever.
303
And so all that more raw and authentic conversation just started getting pushed down into group chats.
304
I think this felt really good for a little bit because it was, okay, we have our own secret little clubhouses, also the literal clubhouse out,, this feeling of, okay, we have our own,, hideouts where we can talk to each other and we're away from all that craziness over there and we can talk about it in here.
305
And I think that is The function that they continue to serve.
306
Something that I think we don't think about enough is what does it mean for ideas to be pushed into these much denser more compressed networks it changes the way that ideas evolve And spread because we're not it's not that everyone checked out of their public feeds and The public online social web and just went to go live off the land in some closed office society everyone is still using twitter or whatever instagram whatever but they're that's where you're getting all these new fresh ideas and then you're taking them and you're bringing them into these closed compressed spaces and so again if you're returning this idea of ideas as as viruses i i compare this in the book to having a coveted pod right where people thought okay i'm just gonna hang out with 10 people and we're not gonna get covet because we're safe with each other we're safe yeah and everyone knows how that played out if you live through the pandemic where it's in the end you can't really control what those other 10 people in your pod are doing they might be going to grocery store they might be hanging out with other friends and not telling you about it or whatever and so if they bring the virus into your little enclosed pod now you're just you've just architected a super spreader event right where it's yeah you're you're all hanging out with each other and so yeah there's something similar that that happens with ideas where you're now bringing ideas from the outside world into these closed environments that are very high trust where everyone can iterate super super rapidly and I think that is partly where ideas are just starting to get mutated and weird and evolving into these strange strange things super quickly is because they're they're being incubated now in these much smaller spaces.
307
And that's both for for good and bad it's it's I think you argue,, it's you get the upside of more intellectual biodiversity where you have these different groups coming up with strange ideas that then get released and that's maybe better for the commons.
308
But you also get this function of things becoming more extreme or that can lead things in a slightly different direction.
309
Is that a passable summary of that piece of it?
310
Yeah, definitely.
311
Something I try to, just a tone I was trying to strike throughout the book was, I'm not trying to pass judgment one or the other.
312
It's just, I think interesting things are happening from a physics perspective of how ideas are changing today.
313
And let's try to take a look at it and understand them.
314
Yes, absolutely.
315
You loop it back again to quantum in this part, I think, with the idea of inverted containment chambers.
316
I can't remember.
317
Yeah, yeah.
318
So in the book, there is no anti-mimetics division.
319
There's this idea of these inverted containment chambers where inside there you're safe from the anti-memes in the outside world.
320
But yeah, this is, I guess, the reverse of that where, yeah, you're not as safe as you think you are.
321
Yes.
322
One of the ideas that, or one of the questions I had was: to what extent do you think virality super memes are contrived and concocted versus truly organic?
323,, I'm thinking about this in the sense of a lot of these social platforms do have foreign actors in some capacity, or they do have,, even much more casual groups of people who band together to get something to take off.
324
Yeah,, how much of what we end up seeing do you think is organic versus invented or synthetic?
325
I think probably a lot of it is more invented than meets the eye, especially I think with the layer of group chats as this extra vector of just, yeah, our information flows of information.
326
We've seen some reporting about this as well, I think, that points to this of, and I talk about in the book as well in a more abstract sense of if you don't know who is all in a group chat in private coordinating and talking to each other, in public they will be supporting each other's ideas.
327
And you might think, oh, this is just an organic thing where this person really likes this other person's ideas.
328
But it might also be that they know each other quite well and you just aren't privy to what those relationships are in the background.
329
I don't think that's, in some ways, I don't think any of this is different from, again, all this is rooted in some other fundamental piece of human behavior where people have been trying to orchestrate and engineer emotions and relationships and things for forever.
330
So yeah, same with the way ideas spread now, where yes, there are, I think there's these two components to whether an idea takes off and part of it has to do with maybe innate qualities or characteristics of an idea and how it is being presented to you, but and the other part is who is the person receiving that and what are their interests?
331
What are they more or less attuned to?
332
And any information architects or meme architect or whatever is going to be thinking about how do I tailor this idea so that it spreads with just the right people.
333
But yeah, I think that's probably a story that's that's pretty old.
334
It's just maybe gotten easier, or there's just there are more and more people that are experimenting with that now than ever before.
335
So you're just being exposed to so many other, so many more opportunities for that to happen.
336
But I think this is where it does become important to be aware of whether you it or not, you are a gatekeeper for your own network.
337
And so,, being more aware of when is an idea really being tailored just for me.
338
And no one ever thinks that the idea is being tailored just for them.
339, they always think that you're the exception.
340
That's interesting.
341
But yeah, everyone is subject to that somewhere.
342
And the reporting that you referenced, I think, is useful to talk about just as I think it really concretizes some of what we're talking about here.
343
There's a piece by Ben Smith in Semaphore where he talks about, particularly with tech VC circles, the rise of signal chats, WhatsApp chats with folks Mark Andreessen and Eric Torenberg and intellectuals and academics, where they're talking about these different ideas.
344
And in some of these instances, it seems one person is really getting into a battle with someone else.
345
But when that gets brought out into the open, those two people will say they're great friends and they don't want to air that in public.
346
And then there's the other version that you referenced, which is maybe one of those people from one of those groups tweets something, expressing some idea, and then lots of people might champion that idea themselves without necessarily the bystander recognizing that if not totally coordinated, there's at least some link there that isn't necessarily visible.
347
Yeah.
348
And again, I think this has always been true with backroom deals and closets.
349
It's always just, it's very hard to speculate on where ideas come from.
350
And I think the public often gets these things wrong because if you just, if you don't know who knows whom and none of us really have complete information in that sense, then you may not appreciate all the ways in which people are always supporting other people that they know in seemingly unrelated domains.
351
Yeah, that's,, just the necessity of being in a society on some levels.
352
Yes, live in a society.
353
Exactly.
354
This episode of the Generalist Podcast is brought to you by our very own Generalist Plus, the premium newsletter that's redefining how investors and builders navigate the technological frontier.
355
Generalist Plus delivers a mini NBA tier inbox at just a teeny fraction of the cost, just $22 a month or $220 annually.
356
So, what's included?
357
One, tactical interviews where elite founders and investors reveal their actual strategies and decision frameworks.
358
Two, comprehensive guides that distill hundreds of hours of research into actionable insights on investing and company building.
359
Three, an exclusive database of emerging startups poised for significant growth.
360
And finally, complete access to our archive of meticulously crafted case studies.
361
All of this comes wrapped in the distinctive storytelling and incisive analysis that readers have come to expect from the generalist.
362
We've designed Generalist Plus to level up your capabilities as an investor and operator through knowledge that matters, delivered with precision and depth.
363
So join a community of strategic thinkers who are gaining an edge in understanding markets, technology, and business fundamentals by visiting thegeneralist.substack.com.
364
That's thegeneralist.substack.com.
365
I used the word champion there without really thinking about it too carefully, but you have a very specific way of talking about truth tellers and champions in the books and tricksters, which you referenced earlier.
366
Yeah, what are the roles of the truth-tellers and the champions in the defense against forgetting?
367
Yes.
368
So some of this is riffing off of Gerard's theory of mimetic desire, where, so trying to take the anti-what is the anti-mimetic equivalent of some of those fundamental concepts.
369
And so Gerard talks about how,, we don't necessarily want things because we innately desire them, but because someone else we admire wants that thing.
370
And so there's often competition and rivalry between people who are both competing for this same object of desire, which stems from someplace outside of themselves because they're trying to emulate someone that they,, that they or that they want to be.
371
And he says,, the way that this gets resolved is through a scapegoat where we can pin all this rivalry, violence, anger, tension onto some other third party and say it's that person's fault.
372
And then, and that ends up bringing us together toward to, so that we resolve our own tensions because we can just both be angry at the other, the other entity.
373
And I talk in the book why I think this is a somewhat limited concept, even for today.
374
But setting that part aside, I was thinking about, okay, what is the anti-mimetic equivalent of this?
375
And so I think when anti-memes get out of control, you don't see rivalry and competition and conflict, but you see just a collective suppression or not looking at a thing that we really need to be looking at.
376
So,, maybe there's a taboo that is really starting to affect everyone's lives, and we're all just looking the other way about it and not acknowledging it.
377
And so, what role escape goes, but for the anti-mimetic problem, helps bring that to light.
378
And so, I talk about this role of truth tellers of the simplest explanation is just the boy who said the emperor has no clothes, right?
379, everyone's seeing this thing happen, no one wants to say it out loud, and you have this,, innocent bystander who says,, hey,, why are we all looking at this thing and not talking about it?
380
Are we crazy here?
381
Are we all crazy here?
382
Yeah.
383
And so, I think truth tellers, there are a lot of different versions of this.
384
There are,, whistleblowers, maybe in a more political context.
385
There are priests in a religious context.
386
We have different roles for people that are meant to shepherd difficult knowledge to light.
387
So, yeah, someone a priest or a therapist might be helping us unearth difficult to recognize knowledge from ourselves.
388
So, uncomfortable truths that we don't want to face about ourselves.
389, we can do that in the confines of this private, trusted space.
390
But then, someone a whistleblower is doing that on a collective level where they're shaking us out of that stasis and saying, Hey, pay attention to this thing.
391
But I think the truth tellers only take us so far where, okay, everyone,, they've caught everyone's attention for a moment.
392
We can all say, Yes, you're right, we should be doing something.
393
But,, I think everyone has experienced some version of this where it's,, if no one follows up on that behavior or tries to,, take real action against it.
394
we just settle back into what we were before, right?
395
So a truth teller flashes, sends this flare up into the air, but it's up to what I call champions to take that role and then run with it.
396
And champions are people that are well versed in an anti-mimetic system, which can often be very difficult to navigate, very difficult to look at for a long period of time.
397
So if you think about politics or any bureaucracy where it's a really complex system that is designed for you not to look at it.
398
So I talk about bureaucracies as these anti-memeplexes where, so Richard Dawkins talks about memeplexes, which are a collection of memes that act to put a certain idea into the world.
399
So you think about fashion trends, political parties, et cetera, could be thought of as memeplexes.
400
And anti-memeplex is a collection of anti-memes that are designed to make you just not look at it.
401
Don't pay attention.
402
Don't pay attention.
403
Nothing to see here.
404
Even if you're looking directly at the system, you're just, I don't know what's going on here.
405
You think about the healthcare system or the DMV or whatever, it's just very difficult to look at these things.
406
And so you need a champion who is willing to get down into the swamp and say, I'm going to go tease out every little part of this and I'm going to make sure that we don't forget these things.
407
Even when everyone else keeps forgetting, I'm going to go and work through the intricacies of the system.
408
And so I think we need both the truth teller to send the flare, send the signal into the air, and then you need the champion who's doing this long tail of work to try to make sure that actual progress gets made.
409
There's so many pieces of that that I think are so interesting that I want to come onto.
410
But one of the things about truth tellers that I thought was such an interesting observation was that a lot of the time they are children or younger.
411, in the story of the emperor who has no clothes, it's the child who points that out.
412
And you use the example also of Greta Thunberg.
413
And the reason that's the case is because you talk about the need for a truth teller to have some degree of purity of purpose.
414
Why is that such an important piece?
415
I think it's again trying to overcome this feeling of distrust we might have where we are all unconsciously or not gatekeepers of our networks.
416
And when someone's coming in and if they have an agenda, you put up a little bit of resistance.
417
You're saying, okay, let me see why this person is trying to tell me this thing is the case.
418
If it's someone that is totally on the outside, similar, I guess, to the scapegoat thing in Gerard's model of the world, this person's totally unrelated to everything else.
419
And if they're saying it, then, okay, they have no perceived agenda.
420
They're not trying to make me do anything.
421
It's just, it must be as close as we get to the truth, right?
422
Yeah, really interesting.
423
And you have a few different examples of champions in the book.
424
One of them, Nick Kamarata, I hope I'm pronouncing his name relatively closely.
425
I thought was a really interesting one because of your connection with the topic that he talks about, the jhanas.
426
And yeah, I would love for more folks to hear about it because I was not familiar with it until reading your work about it, oh, maybe six months ago or something that.
427
Sure.
428
Yeah, so I said at the beginning of this conversation that I have a wide range of interests in topics, and my current area of interest is around this concept of advanced meditation, which is a set of different techniques and practices that can help people access much deeper and radically altered but also potentially transformative mental states that are go much beyond what you think about in mindfulness.
429
So, mindfulness might teach you to stay calm or not be stressed out.
430
And in these sorts of states that are unlocked through advanced meditation, people are experiencing things that are closer to psychedelics, also with the potential for therapeutic benefits and improvements to their mental health.
431
So really interesting space that is just starting to take off and that for various reasons I have stumbled into.
432
And part of the reason why I did stumble into it was because of this guy, Nick, who was tweeting about it and had had his own experiences just playing around with some of these practices, ended up in some pretty interesting and remarkable states and decided to just tell people about it on the internet.
433
And he,, he'd searched on Twitter and was, okay, no one else is talking about this, truly no one else.
434
So I'm just going to, I'm going to be that person and start talking about it.
435
And you can imagine it's a strange topic, right?
436
So it's,, you're putting some personal reputation at risk.
437
When I first started writing about it, I ended up doing this magazine piece about it a year ago.
438
And I'm also,, no relationship to meditation, just curious person, fell into this world and then decided to write about it.
439
I was super nervous about publishing about it because I was just, this is not my reputation at all.
440
I don't want people to think I've fallen off the deep end.
441
And was very pleasantly surprised that,, the number of people that have now reached out to me saying they've gone and tried these practices or that it really resonated with them or whatever, from people I never would have expected.
442
And a lot of people have said things, well, it's because you seem normal.
443
And so it's, therefore, I feel less weird about trying it.
444
But again, I think this demonstrates some of these concepts around wanting to feel sometimes we don't share these anti-mimetic concepts even when they're really important or interesting to us because there's some risk to your own reputation.
445
There's some risk of consequentiality.
446
And so yeah, I think Nick was very much in that position and he was the patient zero when I was originally trying to map out the space, which is what got me interested in the first place where I was just, there are some weird people talking about stuff on Twitter.
447, what's going on?
448
I just want to figure it out.
449
Everyone I interviewed would point back to Nick and saying, oh, I saw his tweets.
450
And that got me curious.
451
The point I make in the book is, there's no reason why this thing should have taken off.
452
And now it's been covered by mainstream press all over the place and has become much less strange to talk about than it was even a year ago.
453
And a lot of that can be traced back to Nick just being this person saying, hey, I'm going to go write a boss.
454
I'm going to talk about it.
455
And he just did it relentlessly for months and months and months.
456
He's still doing it.
457
And that's a role that is not just a truth-teller role where you do it once and then everyone goes, wow, that's crazy.
458
And he had to really put in the work over time to ensure that it was something that people would not forget and that would just keep coming up on their feeds enough that they would get,, maybe annoyed and say, well, let me go fair with this.
459
I'm the guy.
460
Yeah,, that's what happened to me, anyway.
461
I would really to try it at some point.
462
It's on a list of things that I'm curious about, but haven't, yeah, no excuses, just haven't prioritized yet.
463
But one of the things you mentioned about being worried about writing about this and posting about it, do you find yourself becoming less of a gatekeeper over time?
464, do you lower your own activation threshold for sharing interesting ideas?
465
Because you're, well, I've done it a few times in the past, and now people understand that I'm an eclectic person who is intelligent and is going to be thoughtful about such things, even if it's not what me for.
466
Yeah, I think in some, not in the lowering of standard sense, but in the sense of recognizing that, oh,,, every time I've been afraid of this thing, it hasn't been a big deal, and it's been oftentimes more positive.
467, I've noticed just the weirder stuff I write about tends to be better received than whenever I try to do something more polished or something that fits in more.
468
So, and it creates this,, positive feedback loop for me where I'm just, okay, being weird is good.
469
So I'm just going to keep looking at that.
470
I think if I perceive that there is something that would be damaging to my network or would be damaging to my reputation, there's still plenty of things that where it's just,, I got my own taboos and things that I don't share.
471
So I think it's still there, but maybe it's just realizing that the perceived consequences are not as bad as you think.
472
And I would definitely,, one thing I hope from people would take away from the book is, you should definitely push yourself more on what you think that you're able to say out loud or what you're able to share with other people.
473
I love the dynamic that you seem to have with your writing, which is maybe the opposite of audience capture or productive audience capture, where people want you to do weirder stuff and you're you're, okay, great.
474
Rather than getting pigeonholed into something smaller and smaller you get to go authenticate all these interesting directions.
475
Yeah that's definitely where I want to be.
476
You talk about two concepts that in different contexts but very internet slang words that have a real meaning but are not always legible to folks.
477
Vibes and cringe.
478
Maybe you can talk about how those two ideas fit into the world of anti-mimetics.
479
Sure.
480
So I mentioned vibes as an emergent again vibes have probably been around forever but we've always had vibes.
481
And that's the point.
482
Yes.
483
Yeah I talk about how they've become more talked about or more prominent of a concept in conjunction with the rise of anti-memes.
484
I think in part it is this feeling of people wanting to escape the highly defined rigid world of memes where it's,, you say you're a thing and it needs to be so perfectly polished and shaped for transmissibility because you're trying to optimize, you're trying to make it go viral, and it just becomes exhausting over time for people to engage with all the time.
485
And so there's this,, parallel version of it that's that's the vibes.
486
And I mentioned this thing called Vibe Camp that a bunch of people on the internet organized a few years back and have been organizing every year, where it's just a festival that's celebrating the vibes, celebrating the things that you can't quite put your finger on and you can't quite define so precisely.
487
And I think vibes are interesting in that they are, they're weirdly memetic in their own way, in that it serves as this, yeah, thin mimetic wrapper around an anti-mimetic feeling.
488
Yes.
489
I'm trying not to keep saying the word vibes.
490
Yes.
491
But it allows it to flip around on the internet and you have some stand-in word for what the vibe is without having to more precisely define what it is.
492
And I think this is, again, if we,, reach back and say, okay, vibes existed even before this latest era of the internet.
493
I think this is true for a lot of just words in our vocabulary, which are closer to vibes and they have super precise meanings.
494
So you think about things community or love, and these are stand-in words for something.
495 it's really hard to describe what love really, really means.
496
There's not a lot of consensus around it.
497
What does it really mean to have a community?
498
And people dance around these topics for a long time.
499
People try to engineer them from scratch.
500
It's really hard to engineer love or community from scratch if you've ever been on a dating app or you've ever tried to create your own community.
501
You just create the conditions for them and they have to emerge on their own.
502
So yeah, I think vibes have this longer standing meaning and importance that goes beyond even the way that we use it today.
503
And then cringe, yeah, gosh, cringe is, cringe is the worst thing.
504
I hate cringe.
505
Always got to fight against cringe.
506
Yeah, or should we embrace it, really?
507
Or embrace the cringe, right?
508
That's what I want people to do.
509
And it is painful and difficult to do it.
510
I am definitely,, not saying it's not, but I think it has become this self-censoring tactic in recent years where,,, I've been around the internet long enough to remember when we didn't have cringe and everyone just did things, right?
511
And it's only more easy where people say, oh, that thing is cringe.
512
And what does cringe really mean?
513
It means you've done a thing that's, other people don't or you've miscalculated how other people receive it and that's embarrassing for you and I think this fear this gripping fear of being cringe online or being cringe in public keeps people from doing a lot of things that the most interesting stuff comes from the edges it comes from all the weirdness it comes from people not thinking so much about how they will be perceived and it's easier said than done but I just really wish we would stop worrying so much about how we're being perceived and just throw some stuff out there and see what happens.
514
Yes, there's huge liberation on the other on the other side of that if you can convince yourself.
515
There's such a good blog post, maybe you've read it, called The Moat of Low Status.
516
I think so.
517
It's by a writer called Sasha Chapin.
518
And the idea is that you have to go through this moat, this horrible morass of looking an idiot to achieve anything worthwhile.
519
But I loved it as a visual of, yeah, there is no magical bridge that you can cross in any of these situations.
520
You have to do something that probably some amount of people are going to say is really cringe, is really lame,, makes you look an idiot to achieve anything.
521
But even just to share a simple idea in the internet age is obviously quite fraught.
522
Yeah.
523
Yeah.
524
With the concept of antimimetics, one of the things that came to mind for me, maybe as a relatively new parent, is how this might impact our educational system.
525, what important truths might we be forgetting?
526
And how has it made you, maybe as a parent, think about educating your family?
527
Yeah, I love this.
528
Also, congratulations.
529
Oh, thank you.
530
Yeah, definitely think about it a lot with parenting.
531
Yeah, it makes me think about this.
532
I had this hobby horse for a while that if I had infinite time in the world to explore every topic that I was interested in, I would probably spend some time on this topic, but I don't.
533
But for a while, I was thinking a lot about this idea of global knowledge versus local knowledge.
534
And so, global knowledge is they're facts, right?
535
So, things that can be taught to you by just about anyone, and once you learn them, you can verify that they're true.
536
You have this information, you store it in your memory bank.
537
And global knowledge can pass pretty easily through low-context, high-scale environments where, yeah, you can learn one plus one equals two from just about anyone because you can then reproduce it yourself.
538
And great, got it.
539
Local knowledge is more wisdom, life lessons, stuff that is pretty hard to just pass on.
540
So, if you think about any important life lesson you've learned, you may have read it or been told it by so many people over and over again.
541
And then it's only when you experience it yourself that you go, oh gosh, I can't believe this thing that sounded so obvious.
542, everyone's been telling me, and I didn't realize it.
543
And I still couldn't protect myself somehow.
544
Yes, yes.
545
And so, this is a very inefficient way to transfer and pass on this knowledge.
546
I think it transfers much better in high-context, high-trust environments because you're more likely to be receptive to advice or ways of thinking or from someone that you trust versus someone that you don't.
547
I think in general, we spend our entire biological lives trying to acquire all this,, local knowledge, this local wisdom that, and I think I'm using local, maybe more,, it lives in your local environment, right?
548
But it's not, and then it just dies with you.
549
And then,,, how do you pass any of that stuff on?
550
It just seems a waste that,, every person is born, they learn all the same life lessons about love and relationships and working with people and all this stuff.
551
And then it just dies with you.
552
And that's the end of it.
553
If we are moving more and more towards low trust environments, that risks us losing further.
554
So, how do we pass on these kinds of things that might be passed down by your grandparents or your parents or whatever?
555
And so when I think about it with in terms of parenting, yeah, I surprised myself, I think, in terms of what I thought I would care about with educating my kids and versus what I care about now.
556
I think before my kid was born, I just assumed that,, my child's brain is a sponge, and so I'm just going to crammed with all the information I can.
557
Oh, yeah, I totally got that.
558 it's,, look at this book.
559
Yes, you just read.
560
Learn.
561
And I think for, both my husband and I come from this context.
562
For him, it was math.
563
For me, it was reading.
564
But,, I started reading super early when I was three.
565
And I just assumed that's when people start to read.
566
And,, and I assume it's,, I know that my parents had put a lot of time into helping teach me how to read.
567
And I just thought, okay, a kid can learn to read when they're three.
568
And,, you just have to sit with them and teach them.
569
And similarly for my husband with math, he was doing math competitions, was very precocious and math stuff.
570
And he had been on the mindset of just, yeah, you can just start teaching your kid,, super early, whatever.
571
So we both came in with our own little,, things that we're talking about.
572
But then my son was born, and I just felt he had a personality within,, days of him coming into this world.
573
It was just very clear he has his own way of thinking, his own way of doing things.
574
He is very opinionated.
575
He's,, wicked sense of humor.
576
He's just, he's very much his own person.
577
He just came out this way.
578
And I don't think we did anything to make him that way.
579, we encourage him, but, he definitely came out with his own version of who he is.
580
And I've heard this from so many other parents where it's just, wow, genetics, man.
581, you really, they come out and they're just, they got it.
582
They got a way of being, right?
583
Yes.
584
And I think somehow it just made me feel I'm not really sure how much anything that I or my husband, or my parents or my husband's parents did,,, really had anything to do with the stage at which we picked up reading or math or whatever.
585, my memory of learning how to read was I,, found a book on the side of the road and I just took it home and I was just flipping through the pages.
586
And then eventually at some point it just clicked, right?
587
What was the book?
588
It was a book of animal poems, an arc full of animals.
589
Wow.
590
I can still recite some of the poems from there.
591
That is a powerful book.
592
It's a great book, great book.
593
But I think if you flipped me and my husband around,,, and he may have not learned to read in that same way, I definitely would not be doing math competitions,, and so it's, to some extent, it was a reflection of something that we were already personally invested in wanting to do.
594
And so when I think about,, what do I want to focus on teaching for my kids, I think I care a lot more about the local knowledge stuff because it feels that's something where I can have just more of a positive influence in his life, where stuff around just emotional regulation or something is frustrating and hard and just encouraging him to keep at it.
595
And I think, again, there's still a lot there that I just cannot influence because he has certain personality quirks or whatever, as we all do.
596
But I think you can at least give them more practice within more reps just to,, if he encounters something frustrating a hundred times,,, and instead of letting him run away, just,, encouraging him to work through it,, that's good practice for him.
597
So yeah, I guess it's a long-winded way of saying,, I don't think I've devalued the importance now of sitting and drilling him on words or numbers or whatever.
598
And I think it's more important to just teach him this meta set of skills that are really, really hard to pass on in a broader context, even outside of parenting.
599
But at least I can take advantage of this high trust relationship that we have to try to impart some of that wisdom onto him as soon as I can.
600
No, honestly, I think that's so thoughtful and it's very personally useful at this point in time as I've found myself often thinking of, all right, do I need to scheme about how this kid can read within,, as fast as humanly possible?
601
But I really think what you said is so poignant, which is just they come out as who they are.
602
And in many respects, the last thing you want to do is lead them down some path that takes that aspect away from them.
603
If you force someone to get so invested in reading or whatever it is,, maybe you risk sullying a little bit of those parts of their mind that are just ready to run in the direction that they're already primed to go in.
604
Yeah, I really that.
605
Yeah.
606
They've all got something they're excited about, so I just want to encourage them in that direction.
607
Yeah, yeah.
608
In reading the book, one of the things that struck me was, man, you really draw from a quite dizzying array of sources.
609, you have some Leo Strauss, you have,, Weird Fiction, you have China Mieville.
610
I can't remember.
611
I couldn't tell you how to pronounce it.
612
Couldn't either.
613
Okay, great.
614
We're in the same boat.
615
I always think it's great if someone doesn't know how to pronounce something because it just means they learned it by reading.
616
They read it.
617
Yeah.
618
What does your intellectual pipeline look?
619, where do you find interesting ideas to the extent that you're able to remember where they came from?
620
I think I'm honestly, again, just pretty low-tech about this stuff.
621
And so a lot of it just comes from the interactions I have with other people and my own environment.
622
I think just other people are a very underappreciated source of information.
623
Not in the instrumental manipulative sense, but in the,, every conversation you have at a dinner party or something, so many conversations are not nearly as interesting as they could be.
624
And I think,, someone tells you they're a doctor or something,, oh, ask them about what is it to work with patients and what is,, hospital administration or whatever,, and you just you can end up unearthing all sorts of really interesting things that you otherwise might not find on the internet.
625
It's yeah, and so I think a lot of the little sparks and little bits of, yeah, just ideas, things that I just collect them all, I put them all in my notes and, they come from all sorts of different places, all the different people that I interact with.
626
But a lot of it just comes from trying to be a curious person and trying to really, really listen when other people are talking and asking them about their life I think most people are thrilled to talk about themselves in their life or when someone takes an interest in them and so yeah so few people just go a couple quicks deeper just to you never know what you might learn from your parents family friend or something that you might have never thought twice about but probably has a really interesting life that you should you should quiz them about so yeah i think that's and then then i think that the then it becomes a matter of stringing together where are these where do all these different pieces fit together or where are some parallels or commonalities between them but yeah i think other people are probably my biggest source of of ideas and information just in terms of that initial inspiration do you write notes to yourself or i guess the word we use for that is journal every day or is it something just a little haphazard i stopped really journaling probably in the last few years i barely journal at all anymore yeah partly just became it just takes a long time and i don't know that time anyway And partly i think i've just gotten comfortable with blissly blissfully letting go of a lot of things but i do take a lot of scraps of notes just keep it in my notes app just anything on the fly so it's yeah something i'm just thinking about in the moment flash of inspiration i get a lot of just right when i wake up in the morning or middle of the night there's a lot of just oh some something weird happens in my brain where all the ideas synthesize together.
627
So I have definitely tapped out early drafts on things, just four o'clock in the morning where i just wake up.
628
I'm, oh i got i got things i gotta write down.
629
And then i go back to sleep but yeah, I think i'm, yeah, probably every day there's just something.
630
And yeah, if I'm talking to people and they mention some interesting stat or insight or book I hadn't thought about, things that, I'm just always recording it all.
631
I'm just a little magpie, just putting all the twigs in the pile.
632
I love that.
633
I don't know if you've ever read some of Graham Duncan's writing, The Investor.
634
He has this concept of the importance in investing of protecting the climate in your own skull, which I really.
635
And given how much you have studied virality, memes, social media, have you found yourself, I don't know, immune to the vagaries that are fighting for your attention?
636
Do you put up any walls for yourself to protect the climate in your skull when you're trying to think or write deeply?
637
Definitely.
638
Yeah, I think I have a lot of pretty strong routines for my work hours at least.
639
I think a lot of creative people resonate with this, but my morning hours are sacred, this podcast, notwithstanding.
640
But in general, I do that.
641
That means it was worth doing.
642
But yeah, generally, mornings, I never ever do meetings or anything that.
643
That's my best time to think.
644
Yeah, have a little,, break or rest in the middle of the day, take care of any logistical stuff.
645
Afternoons are also either a deep work session, or if I have to schedule meetings, I do them in the afternoons.
646
And I just have rules for myself: yeah, I don't, I don't ever just mindlessly scroll.
647, I definitely feel the pull to mindlessly scroll.
648, that's, it's not I'm immune to that.
649
But when I see it happening, I just make a conscious effort to be, break the loop, close it, go away.
650
Yeah.
651
And so I think it's,, not any different from diet or exercise or anything that.
652
Where,, I, I love drunk food.
653, don't go.
654
Yeah.
655, it's engineered to be amazing.
656
Yes.
657, I have zero qualms about eating fast food or anything that.
658
But,,, you do it in moderation or you don't just mindlessly reach for it.
659
I don't keep snacks in the house just to,, eat whenever I'm just feeling I need to put something, put something in my stomach.
660
So yeah, I think keeping those sorts of habits is similarly important.
661
Yeah, I think that has gotten harder with kids for sure.
662
So evenings and weekends are not quite that.
663
I would say during my work hours, it's I spend, yeah, probably 90% of my time just in a state of flow, which is really, really nice.
664
It becomes a reward in itself where I just, it feels so good to be in that state of flow that I don't want to do anything to break it.
665
It's truly unappealing to me, the thought of opening Twitter during my work hours.
666
I'm just, I don't, I don't want to look at that.
667
It's going to shatter my focus.
668
Yeah.
669
But you have dedicated time where it's, okay, middle of the day, there is an hour there where it's, maybe I will do something else and then come back.
670
But yeah, kids makes it harder, but I also, I think I used to be much more of a precious snowflake about, don't disturb me with my hours and stuff that,?
671
And you just can't do that with kids.
672
And I'm trying to,, balance that with, there's a lot of joy to be found in things that are surprising and not calculated.
673
And that in itself is a penetration.
674
So yeah, it's just about trying to balance both those things, but definitely just keeping good habits and sticking to them.
675
I don't think there's any secret to it.
676
It's just that, that's all you got to do.
677
Yeah, I think kids has been interesting in the sense that I used to really feel I needed almost an hour and a half to get down to the depth at which I could write well.
678
And now I feel, oh, you just don't have that time.
679
So you have to make that happen in 15 minutes and do what you can do.
680
It's fantastic.
681
Yeah,, I really used to have to get in exactly the right mindset.
682
One little thing was off, and I was, oh no, my day has been ruined.
683
Now I look back and,, I don't have that luxury.
684
And it's made me a much better writer and much, much easier to focus.
685
I think that's true.
686
Yeah, you have to just snap into it.
687
To wrap up, I to do a few abstract, more philosophical questions, which you'll be familiar with from modern meditation style.
688
But the first one is not an easy one, which is, do you believe in free will?
689
And why do you feel the way you feel about that?
690
I don't know why I've become so interested in asking people this, but something about it, just I'm really trying to think about it for myself.
691
Casual question to wrap up the interview.
692
Yes.
693
Gosh, I think I probably believe in it a lot less than a lot of my peers.
694
I think I tend to, when I,, try to make sense of history or the news or anything that, I'm often looking more at systems level explanations.
695
So I think it's also where I don't really get bothered by doomsday scenarios where I'm just, I believe,, any crisis that has emerged is a product of different conditions, a lot of different conditions.
696
And when we need to address it, we'll, we'll figure it out in the moments and we don't need to overthink it.
697
So yeah, I tend to think more in that way.
698
That being said, I think I also gravitate towards the role of individuals in being able to disrupt or change a system.
699
So even when we talk about anti-medics, the truth teller, the champion, whatever.
700
So I really do gravitate towards individuals.
701
And so how are both these things true?
702
I think when a lot of people talk about the role of individuals in changing the course of history or influencing it, they reach for something that is a great man theory or a great founder theory.
703
I don't really buy any of that, but I do think, I don't.
704
Yeah, or it just doesn't resonate with me.
705
But I think I have a version of it that is a great profit theory where I think when someone has become really infected by an idea, they need to express it by all means necessary, right?
706
And I think that's a beautiful thing.
707
And we just need to,, I want to step aside and just let that person go to town with whatever is in their heads.
708
And so I think the ultimate effect is maybe similar in that I really do prize the power of the individual to change a system or change course history.
709
But I think it just comes from a slightly different place where I don't know that it's their personal decision to do that.
710
I think I have pretty close to a literal belief that,, ideas are these viruses that infect us.
711
And we're just the carriers and we're just,, I'm just expressing it the way you're expressing the symptoms of a cold or a flu or something.
712
So yeah, so yes, it's maybe it's not quite free will, but maybe it looks the same in the end.
713
If you haven't written about great profit theory yet, you really should.
714
That would be a great piece.
715
Yeah, that's a, put that on my back order.
716
What's something that you wish more people would ask you about?
717
Not even because it's particularly pragmatic to talk about or something that is top of mind, but you just really love talking about it.
718
Spike, because if you ask my friends, they'll tell you that I don't talking about anything.
719
You're the asker of questions.
720
Yeah, I'm the asker.
721
I listening to other people.
722
I really hate when the spotlight gets turned on me.
723
So there's probably nothing that I'll be going around really evangelizing.
724
But maybe that we've been talking about kids a lot, but something that has been top of mind for me is something I do wish more people would ask about is just pregnancy and childbirth and things that.
725
I think people tend not to ask about these things because it's personal and sensitive and it's probably a good social instinct to have.
726
But I had this experience recently last fall where a woman came up to me at a tech conference and she said that she had,, she'd read one of my newsletters and there's a brief mention of this technique called hypnobirthing, which is just a style of a way to prepare yourself for birth by getting your brain into a good headspace.
727
And it involves self-hypnosis, but really the point is just getting your brain in a good space.
728
And I'd included a piece about hypnosis more broadly.
729
And she had told me that she had,, read this.
730
It was such a brief mention, but she didn't realize I was even a thing.
731
And she had previously had a first birth that was very difficult and not a great experience.
732
And then for her second birth, she went down this,, whole rabbit hole that had been sparked by that initial mention and learned all these new things, all these new techniques, whatever, and then ended up having a really great experience for her second time.
733
And so she was just saying, thanks for watching it, and maybe you should talk about this more often.
734
And I just never thought about it.
735
And I never thought that's something that I would write about in a more public context.
736
But it made me think, yeah, I do wish that more people would just ask those kinds of questions because maybe you just need to hear one term and then it sends you off in a direction that you might not have thought about otherwise.
737
Yeah, 100%.
738
Okay, amazing.
739
Final question.
740
What was the last great piece of media that you consumed?
741
Maybe it was a film, a book, anything?
742
I think the last, yeah, last great thing.
743
I'm a little late to the train on this, but this TV show called Killing Eve came out a couple years ago.
744
I just never seen, I think it's a really interesting depiction of femininity that has this nihilistic quality to it that I think is often overlooked.
745
Again, more essays that I would love to write about if I have the time.
746
I'd never seen a portrayal of that before.
747
I think the closest other piece of media I'd seen something that in was Sofia Coppola's Marie Antoinette's movie came out a long time ago.
748
But similarly,,, it wasn't, I don't think it was even well reviewed by critics, but I just saw it and I was, I think this is really underrated.
749
It's just, this is my model of femininity in my head or something.
750
And so, anyways, I'm always collecting those kinds of pieces.
751
And yeah, both of those, those stuck in my brain.
752
Amazing.
753
It was so much fun to talk about this with you, Nadia.
754
So I'm really grateful for you taking the time.
755
And yeah, thank you so much.
756
Yeah, thanks for having me.
757
That's it.
758
Thank you for listening to this episode of the Generalist Podcast.
759
Please subscribe on Apple Podcasts, Spotify, or your preferred podcast app.
760
Ratings and reviews help others discover these discussions.
761
So, if you enjoyed the conversation, I'd be grateful if you could take a moment to leave one.
762
For all past episodes and more, visit us at thegeneralist.substack.com.
763
See you next time as we continue to explore the future.