--- METADATA START ---
Show: Unchained
Episode: Bitcoin Treasury Companies Are…
Host: Laura Shin
GUESTS: Cosmo Jiang 
Guests: Cosmo Jiang
Source URL: https://podcasts.apple.com/us/podcast/bitcoin-treasury-companies-are-taking-off-could-they/id1123922160?i=1000710562752
--- METADATA END ---

1
If you're buying MicroStrategy today at two times nav or, you know, a 2x premium, you're effectively buying like half of Bitcoin as opposed to buying one Bitcoin in the spot, right?
2
Which seems irrational.
3
But MicroStrategy has proven over time by using financial engineering, whether that's selling a stock or selling converts in an accretive way, they can actually acquire more Bitcoin.
4
And there's this new metric that people should focus on, which is Bitcoin per share.
5
And so you're saying if you're buying MicroStrategy today at half Bitcoin per share, if they can grow that Bitcoin per share 50% a year for two years, after two years, you have 1.1 Bitcoin per share.
6
So you're actually better off if they can grow Bitcoin per share quickly by owning MicroStrategy at 2x premium than just buying 1x Bitcoin today.
7
Hi, everyone.
8
Welcome to Unchained, your No High resource for all things crypto.
9
I'm your host, Laura Shitt.
10
Every episode, we're featuring your comments.
11
Here's what Hugh Naylor on Farcaster had to say about our recent REV debate between Tom Dunlevy and Austin Federa.
12
Love these spicy takes, whether agreed with or not.
13
I get tired of podcasts where people always agree and or say the uncontroversial.
14
Do you agree or disagree?
15
You'll have to tune in and let us know.
16
Write our review of the podcast overall, or leave a comment on our video on Farcaster, YouTube, or X.
17
This is the May 30th, 2025 episode of Unchained.
18
Imagine an AI that speaks crypto and does the work of a team of analysts.
19
Introducing Focal by Falcon X, bringing clarity to a world of noise.
20
Visit askfocal.com.
21
BitKey is the Bitcoin wallet from the team behind Square and Cash App.
22
It's the first 203 multi-sig hardware wallet with recovery tools that replace the need for a seed phrase.
23
Get 20% off with code Unchained.
24
Today's guest is Cosmo Jiang, general partner and portfolio manager for liquid strategies at Patera Capital.
25
Welcome, Cosmo.
26
Hey, Laura, how are you?
27
Nice to be on.
28
Nice to have you.
29
The crypto treasury.5 billion to buy Bitcoin.
30
Publicly traded Sharplink Gaming raised $425 million to create an Ether treasury company.
31
GameStop announced a $500 million purchase of Bitcoin.
32
And Vivo Power raised $121 million to launch an XRP treasury.
33
Why do you think we're seeing this trend take off now?
34
It's a great question.
35
I think there's a little bit of a product of history in the right moment in time.
36
As far as a product of history, I'd say in a lot of ways, we at Pantera sort of unwittingly started this trend a few months ago when we structured and seeded the first deal in the U.S., which was DeFi DevCorp, or at the time known as Janover.
37
And it received really strong market reception, certainly stronger than we had originally underwritten.
38
And as people saw that, pretty soon thereafter, there were a couple more deals, notably the Canter deal, where there was a Cantor D-Spec that raised close to $700 million.
39
And I think that really made people realize that, wow, there's a really big opportunity here and that there are really big serious people getting in.
40
The Cantor deal was obviously backed by Tether and SoftBank.
41
And after those two deals, I'd say over the last month, I've taken, over the last two months, I've taken 50 pitches now of people trying to do something similar, which is pretty crazy.
42
And we've seen a lot of these deals now come to market after seeing the success of DeFi DevCorp and Tantra Equity Partners.
43
And so that's sort of the, you know, you never know when trends get started.
44
And now we're here with a lot of people want to recreate that success.
45
I think the other reason why they're taking off now is more related to the larger capital markets, which is that it's pretty clear there's a very strong appetite for crypto-related equities.
46
And I say that because this year has become a coming-out moment for the crypto industry where there's regulatory clarity coming.
47
And so traditional equity investors now feel the need, the demand, the desire to get access to crypto-related exposure.
48
You're seeing that show up in crypto league stocks like Coinbase or Coinbase or Robinhood or Galaxy.
49
We're also seeing it show up in IPOs like eToro, priced way above the range, largely because it's crypto association.
50
Circles, IPO is driving pretty strong demand, also because of the crypto association.
51
So there's very clearly really strong appetite for crypto-linked equities.
52
And then, by the way, one great instantiation or way to represent that is through these digital asset treasury companies.
53
Yeah, and of course the grand daddy of all these companies is MicroStrategy, or formerly MicroStrategy Now Strategy.
54
Let's talk a little bit about how these companies are structured because it seems that they're all using sort of like different terms to raise money for these purchases of, you know, usually Bitcoin, but sometimes other cryptos.
55
You know, what are the different types that can occur?
56
And if you could even also lay out like which ones are riskier than others, that would be helpful.
57
Yeah, let's start with our two large types of transaction structures, and then there's a few different tools.
58
So the two most common types of transaction structures we've seen are: one, you can either go through a SPAC route.
59
And so there are large SPACs are basically large bank check companies that have a lot of capital.
60
Canter Equity Partners is the largest D-SPAC in the last couple of years.
61
And they had raised a bunch of capital and they added on, they did a reverse merger with a Bitcoin holding entity called 21 and added on an additional pipe, which is a public investment, private investment, public equity, and convertible debt raise.
62
So there's the D-SPAC route, which is take a large bank check company and then effectively take this treasury company public.
63
And then the other route, which has become much more common because it's faster to market, is finding what I would lovingly call a NASDAQ-listed public company that is perhaps very small, micro-cap, and in a lot of cases, either clearly a shell company or something that just hasn't succeeded in what they'd like to do and so trading at a very low market cap.
64
The idea of using a NASDAQ-listed company is because that way you get access to the U.S.
65
capital markets day one.
66
It's already listed on NASDAQ.
67
And it's much quicker to raise capital and use all the tools that are available to you in the financial markets if you're already a seasoned issuer, or in other words, a public company for more than a year.
68
And so we've seen most of the new forays be going to find these NASDAQ public companies, these NASDAQ shell corporations, where you can then, where they then raise a large amount of capital to begin acquiring crypto.
69
So those are the two routes, either SPAC or a public shell code.
70
I'd say the tools that you have.
71
When you're raising equity, it's through a pipe or a private investment in public equity.
72
And when you're raising debt, it's likely going to be through a convertible debt offering because people who want to participate in this want equity like the upside, which you get in convertible debt as opposed to normal debt.
73
But you also get downside protection if you participate in convertible debt that a public equity investor wouldn't get.
74
So, those are the two major types.
75
It seems like most of the capital has been raised in the pipe format rather than the convertible debt format.
76
And that's because what we've seen is that, at least in the first few deals, most of the participants in these deals are people who already own the underlying asset, whether that's Bitcoin or something else.
77
And so, for them, they're already have that delta one exposure to the underlying asset.
78
They don't care, or they're indifferent if Bitcoin goes down in price or goes up in price.
79
They're already long Bitcoin.
80
And so, for them, investing in a common equity type structure makes a lot of sense, and they don't need the downside protection.
81
As we see these deals get bigger and more mature, and certainly with the larger deals like the DJT deal, you're going to attract much more traditional finance investors, and they want the downside protection.
82
So, you'll see more convertible debt structures and larger, more mature deals, and a lot more pipes in these smaller deals that are mostly crypto natives.
83
And from an investor standpoint, are certain either structures or ways of financing the purchases, are they considered riskier or better or just different?
84
Yeah, they're definitely different.
85
But there is some that are more riskier than others.
86
So, from a really comparing the pipe versus the convertible debt, a pipe is effective.
87
And so, with common stock, you have obviously downside to zero or unlimited upside, but you get it at the price at which your entry is.
88
And so, you have the full spectrum of return outcome.
89
So, it's higher risk-reward.
90
With a convertible debt note, you have downside protection because it is debt.
91
Oftentimes, it's collateralized by tokens in the treasury.
92
And so, if you're investing in a convertible debt offering, you get the downside protection of not losing your principal except in a really bad scenario.
93
And then you get the up, but your upside is limited.
94
Generally, convertible notes have a conversion option that's 30 or 35 percent above the existing price.
95
So, let's say something trades at $10.
96
If you're a pipe investor, you buy it at $10.
97
If you're a convertible debt investor, you're downside protected below $10.
98
And at $13, you can then convert into common equity.
99
And so, you sort of lose the first 30% of upside, but you get the downside protection.
100
Okay, so some of these companies are also solely devoted to the crypto acquisition or the crypto treasury strategy, and others tack that strategy onto another business.
101
And I wondered if you thought there were any types of companies that, you know, like this strategy of trying to acquire crypto is better or worse for.
102
Like, do you think it makes more sense for a company to do it if they already have a core business?
103
Or is it for one that is just purely an acquisition vehicle?
104
Yeah, my preference has been for those that are more simply pure-play acquisition vehicles.
105
And the reason for that is because generally in the public markets, people want simple, digestible stories, not just because it's easier to understand and underwrite, but also because it shows you that.
106
You know, equity investors like being able to choose between different strategies.
107
That's why conglomerates, you know, there's a big wave in conglomerates in the equities in the 50s, and they all got broken up and torn down over time because equity investors became more discerning about wanting specific exposures.
108
And management teams also understood the benefit of being focused.
109
So generally, I like things that are going to be very pure play.
110
And so I find the pure play digital asset treasury companies where all companies have to have an operating company in order to be listed on NASDAQ.
111
But if it's a small operating company that's sort of de minimis in value or an operating company that's very clearly synergistic or linked to the acquisition of underlying tokens, I think that makes sense.
112
But if you have a very large side business that's associated with it, as in, you know, one might argue in the Donald, in the DJT acquisition, they had a $5 billion Truth Social vehicle.
113
You know, it's not super clear whether Truth Social is driving the $5 billion in value or not.
114
But regardless, it's sort of this $5 billion thing that existed and they added $2.5 billion on top.
115
It's like the digital asset piece is just too small of the whole piece of the pie.
116
And so I think that, as a result, is not getting a great reception.
117
Whereas those that are much more pure play, don't really have a large underlying business, like the DFDB or like Cantor Equity Partners, those are performing well because people like that it's so simple and easy to understand and the management is focused.
118
All right.
119
Well, a month ago, there were also a number of Solana acquisition vehicles that launched.
120
Opexie, Sol Strategies, and as you mentioned earlier, DeFi Development Corp.
121
It was surprising to some that there were Solana ones even before there was an Ethereum one.
122
And as I mentioned earlier, there also this week was this XRP.
123
Which types of crypto assets do you feel like make more sense to serve as the underlying for these publicly traded acquisition vehicles?
124
I think it's important to take a little bit of a step back and understand the context of why these vehicles even work to begin with.
125
And it really comes down to a few things, right?
126
In order for the final model premise is that these, if they trade at a premium, they can continue to acquire more tokens in an accretive way over time.
127
And so why should something trade at a premium?
128
Well, it really needs a lot of, it really needs a lot of retail attention and really strong marketing and awareness.
129
Otherwise, it's just not interesting.
130
If we're going to choose crypto asset number 100, there's probably very few people in the equity markets that know it or are interested in it.
131
And so you're not attracting new incremental capital.
132
You're not really getting a lot of buzz.
133
So it has to be, to start with, it has to be a very widely recognized asset.
134
And also not just a widely recognized asset, but an asset that a lot of people want and preferably an asset that is hard to access.
135
And so Bitcoin has done really well.
136
MicroTradi did really well because at the time when it launched, it was very hard for Google to access Bitcoin.
137
It's continued to do well because there is just such strong appetite for Bitcoin in the public markets.
138
Naturally, the list of assets that are widely known and also are attractive to, that are easy to market or attractive to market to a larger set of investors is pretty limited.
139
I'd say I'd be surprised if you go beyond called the top 20, but maybe even top 10, that these really have enough widespread retail awareness for it to be interesting as an asset.
140
But within the top 10, or maybe the top 20, I think there's a lot of reason to believe many of these could work.
141
They just need to come out with a really clear message and a really clear marketing plan to attract this broad.
142
When you look at the next runner-up asset, at least in our conversations, I spend a lot of time talking to institutional investors and large private wealth clients.
143
And it's pretty clear in all of our conversations that Bitcoin is probably 95% of the conversations that people are having when it's talking about entering crypto for the first time.
144
But the next most commonly talked about asset is Solana.
145
And so, for me, as I was looking at these deals, DeFi DevCorp really stood out to me because it's pretty clear there's demand for Bitcoin, but it felt like the second most likely asset that could generate excitement was Solana because it is the second most talked about asset by the LPs that I talk to or the color that I get from them.
146
It is truly a fast-growing asset that has a lot of upside.
147
Certainly, relative to a $2 trillion market cap token like Bitcoin, Solana probably has more upside over time.
148
And that there's like a slightly different story of that.
149
There's a real fundamental story behind Solana versus Bitcoin as digital gold.
150
So, it's unique enough to really stand out.
151
And that's why I think we've seen DeFi DevCorp and the other Solana, the other Solana digital asset acquisition vehicles do well.
152
Clearly, we've seen ETH and XRP come out next.
153
I think both of those also are great assets that a lot of people understand and are aware of.
154
And so, they also stand a really good shot of making it work.
155
All right.
156
So, in a moment, we'll talk a little bit more about the different crypto assets that could serve as the underlying for these different acquisition vehicles.
157
But first, a quick word from the sponsors who make this show possible: Markets are ripping, but not every pump is created equal.
158
You need to make sense of the action and what's coming next.
159
But where do you start?
160
Meet Focal by Falcon X, your AI power.
161
It's like having a legion of experts at your fingertips, ready to break down market-making events, chart protocol TBL, and track ETF flows.
162
Get clarity in a world of noise with Focal.
163
Learn more at askfocal.com.
164
Here's another listener comment responding to Tom Dunleavey and Austin Federa's RIV debate on a recent episode.
165
On YouTube, Sean M.
166
CryptoDad said: No one wants to pay ETH fees, period.
167
We all moved to Solana because the UX was a million times better.
168
The cost to transact is a million times cheaper.
169
Trying to move your money around from ETH to the L2 is not straightforward and simple for a non-crypto person.
170
People don't have to deal with those issues on Solana.
171
If you have a hot take, let us know.
172
We're listening.
173
Leave a review of the podcast overall or leave a comment on our video on Farcaster, YouTube, or X.
174
Back to my conversation with Cosmo.
175
So it sounds like the reason, because, you know, when we saw the trend with the Sol acquisition vehicles, people were wondering, like, why is this not for Ether?
176
But it sounds more like the LPs that you were talking to were more interested in more upside.
177
And because Sol is kind of like at an earlier stage, that was sort of why they were focused there.
178
Is that the reason?
179
Because obviously, with Ether being the second largest crypto asset and having been around for what will be 10 years in two months, it, you know, seemed like I don't know how to phrase this, but I think it was surprising to people that we didn't see the trend with Ether earlier.
180
So can you just dive into a little bit more, you know, explanation there of why we saw it with Sol before ETH?
181
Yeah, I want to be pretty clear that we are, like, I think ETH is clearly a very established asset that a lot of people recognize.
182
And I think we recently made an investment in Sharp Link Gaming, which is the new ETH Treasury vehicle that's backed by ConsenSys.
183
And I'm a strong supporter of that team, and I think they're going to do very well.
184
I think the reason for Solana vehicles coming out before ETH is just as much about the asset, but also about just the opportunity that's out there or the opportunities that get presented.
185
For these things to happen, you need a confluence of a couple of things.
186
You need there to be management teams that are dedicated to trying to do this.
187
And you also need a set of investors that are interested, that are available and capital available.
188
So on the capital available front, clear if there's capital available for both Solana and ETH Treasury vehicles.
189
I do think it's, you know, the momentum in Solana has been strong over the last couple of years.
190
And so the relative appetite, at least amongst, you know, my vantage point of everyone outside of crypto, is higher for Solana than it is for ETH.
191
And it has been for some time.
192
But that could change.
193
And, you know, clearly there's still strong appetite for ETH.
194
From a management team perspective, DeFi DevCore wasn't the first pitch I've taken.
195
I've certainly taken a number of pitches prior to that.
196
But they were the first team that launched in the U.S.
197
with a really strong, with what I thought was a really strong view and a really strong probability for success.
198
And so they happened to be the first one to get started.
199
And the first one that started in the U.S.
200
happened to be a Solana one because that was what the team chose.
201
So there's a little confluence of both those reasons.
202
Yeah, although there was that failed Ether one in January or February.
203
So yeah, it's not just timing.
204
Yeah.
205
There is a, I guess there's like a minimum.
206
So for these to work, there's a minimum viable scale as well.
207
And I think the earlier ones didn't get enough scale off the bat.
208
Like meaning they didn't have enough backers or buyers like from the gecko.
209
Right, right, exactly.
210
Okay.
211
And then just out of curiosity, you said that you felt like it could also work for the XRP one.
212
You know, that one's a little bit different in that XRP, you know, doesn't have kind of like the same level of usage as these other chains or hasn't quite proven itself.
213
And obviously, Ripple is trying to do things to give it more utility, like the Circle acquisition or, you know, offer or discussions of acquisition.
214
So I just wondered, like, you know, for that particular asset, because such a huge portion of the supply is owned by one entity, like, how does that affect, you know, that treasury company?
215
Yeah, I think that is a, it's a great question.
216
And obviously one of the risk factors that anyone has to keep in mind when they're buying XRP the asset or XRP the treasury company.
217
But I do agree that is a risk factor that people should be aware of.
218
We weren't investors in the XRP deal recently, but a lot of that was because of the complexity of the structure of this XRP treasury acquisition vehicle.
219
I think the reason why it might succeed is because, you know, sort of beyond the comprehension of a lot of crypto native people, including myself, is XRP clearly has a really, really strong following.
220
There's a lot of social media influencers that are really into XRP.
221
There's a lot of what I'd call a lot of, it has a lot of really broad awareness amongst institutions and traditional finance.
222
If these vehicles succeed based on their awareness and marketing capability, Ripple has proven out over time.
223
And again, hard to comprehend from a crypto native perspective, like where that comes from, but you can't deny that that exists.
224
And that's why I think it might work.
225
Okay, so one other thing, you know, Matt Levine of Bloomberg wrote about these companies, quote, U.S.
226
public equity markets will pay about $2 for $1 worth of Bitcoin.
227
So why is it that our investors willing to do that?
228
And which types of investors are willing to do that?
229
You know, what could they do with a share of one of these Bitcoin treasury companies that they can't do with, like, for instance, a share of a Bitcoin ETF?
230
Yeah, I think there was a little bit of the nuance that was lost in Matt Levine's blog post, actually.
231
And it is that there are actually a lot of fundamental value investors who own MicroStrategy.
232
So just for a little context, I come from traditional equities.
233
I've done longshored equity most of my career, and I'm like a blue-blooded, deeply fundamental value guy.
234
And so for me, MicroStrategy felt like this weird thing that never made sense, because why should something trade at two times?
235
It's underlying that.
236
But sort of in the light of, as an investor, you need to constantly test your pre-existing biases.
237
And in light of the just continued persistence of the MicroStrategy premium for a long time, and by the way, even after the ETF launched and the buy-in from really fundamentally oriented funds, whether that's Capital Group, which is the largest mutual fund company in the world, or Norhees, the Swedish sovereign wealth fund who owned MicroStrategy and Size, there clearly is something going on.
238
So as I dug in to understand that and sort of test my fundamental value case, I started to realize that there is actually a rational reason why these should trade at a premium.
239
And that fundamental bull case is really premised on a couple of things.
240
Like if you're buying MicroStrategy today at two times nav or 2x premium, you're effectively buying like half a Bitcoin as opposed to buying one Bitcoin via spot, right?
241
Which seems irrational.
242
But MicroStrategy has proven over time by using financial engineering, whether that's selling a stock or selling converts in an accretive way, they can actually acquire more Bitcoin.
243
And there's this new metric that people should focus on, which is Bitcoin per share.
244
And so you're saying if you're buying MicroStrategy today at half of Bitcoin per share, if they can grow that Bitcoin per share 50% a year for two years, after two years, you have 1.1 Bitcoin per share.
245
So you're actually better off if they can grow Bitcoin per share quickly by owning MicroStrategy at 2x premium than just buying 1x Bitcoin today.
246
And last year, MicroStrategy grew its Bitcoin per share by 74%.
247
So there is evidence to suggest that they can grow Bitcoin per share very quickly.
248
And so if you believe all of that to be true, it's actually rational for some people, including very large traditional finance fundamental value allocators, to go buy MicroStrategy or companies like that because you can grow your coin per share faster than owning the coin itself.
249
Well, now let's talk about the downsides because there is concern or potential downsides.
250
There's concern that this could create leverage in the system and perhaps create some kind of systemic risk that would be equivalent to the role that GBTC played during the series of crypto collapses that we had in 2022.
251
Mike Eppolito of Blockworks tweeted, quote, it seems like we found the 2025 equivalent of GBTC.
252
I have no idea if these vehicles will achieve that level of scale and destructive potential, but make no mistake, this is leverage getting injected into the system.
253
To spell out the risk, it's that these acquisition vehicles accumulate a lot of crypto at much worse terms than Sailor and eventually become forced sellers.
254
It's an extremely reflexive feedback loop that, if it gets large enough, ends in a 2022-like sell-off.
255
So, what do you think of what he said there?
256
Yeah, I think there's the broader point that this is a certainly a pocket of reflexivity in the market is certainly true and it's a risk.
257
I would say that some of the detail is perhaps lost in what you said, which is that these companies are only forced sellers if they have a capital problem, right?
258
And the capital problems are either caused by cash flow, negative cash flow, and the need to fund expenses, or by having debt.
259
And by far and large, these new companies are in largely financed by equity, not by debt.
260
So, if you don't have leverage, you just, it's highly unlikely you come into a forced seller situation.
261
Most of these don't have leverage.
262
There are some that do have leverage and some that are taking on debt.
263
And so, that creates a little bit of risk.
264
But my view is that for many of these, they're not going to be forced sellers.
265
Some of them will, but most of them are not.
266
And so, if anything, it's actually just a pretty price-insensitive buyer who is effectively locking up tokens or locking up coins for forever.
267
And so, it's like it's a little bit scary in that this is clearly getting a lot of traction very quickly.
268
And usually, those things don't end well.
269
But if you look at the actual structure, very few of them have debt.
270
So, there's very, very, very little force-selling concern here.
271
And do you see any trends happening with like real-world assets and these stocks and DeFi kind of combining and ending?
272
If the tokenized stock trend continues, then that combined with this trend, could that lead to any kind of systemic risk in crypto?
273
I mean, the beauty of stocks, the beauty of these closed-end vehicles is that it sort of doesn't really matter where the stock trades.
274
Like, they aren't for sellers.
275
Even though the stock goes to like a dollar, it drops 50%.
276
And so, like, I do have questions about the volatility of these equities.
277
Like, I think that volatility of these equities is going to be very severe.
278
And especially in downturns, it's going to be very reflexive.
279
But if you think about it from the perspective, so from the perspective of the owner of the equity, there's definitely a lot of risk involved and a lot of volatility involved with buying these equities.
280
People buy them for that risk, right?
281
People like that they're volatile, and that's why people are buying them, but they have a lot of risk.
282
If you think about it from the like from a crypto-native perspective, from people who own the underlying token, whether that's XRP, or whether, sorry, whether that's Bitcoin or Ethereum or Solana, I think it's like the volatility of the equity almost has nothing to do with whether or not they're going to sell the underlying token.
283
So they're kind of separate.
284
Sentiment-wise, they might not be separate, but fundamentally, they're very separate.
285
And so all that worries me a little bit about being an owner of the equity, although I think they have plenty of upside.
286
But as an owner of the underlying, as an owner of Bitcoin, ETH, or Solana, it doesn't worry me at all.
287
Okay.
288
And when you look at the different types of vehicles, and as you said, you're an investor in a number of these.
289
How would you value them?
290
Or how should investors kind of think about it when they're looking at them?
291
Yeah, I think the most important metric to look at is, well, there are two very important metrics to look at.
292
One is.
293
The metric that maybe you're all grabbing around towards is MNAV or the amount of Bitcoin nav that you own or treasury token nav that you own.
294
So just understanding the valuation of it.
295
what kind of premium to nav does it trade at?
296
MicroStrategy trades at two.
297
Many of the others trade four plus, all the way up to 10 to 20 times.
298
And so there's a very large range.
299
As an investor, you should be aware of that valuation range.
300
That probably should these should all be somewhat similar.
301
And so buying something at 20 times is probably less attractive than buying something at four times or two times.
302
That said, the second metric that's pretty important is valuation is one part, the other part is future growth.
303
And so it's really taking a view on whether the growth in underlying Bitcoin per share or asset per share is growing over time and how quickly it's growing over time.
304
Because the faster you grow your Bitcoin per share, then the higher the premium that can be justified.
305
And so it's really a combination of both.
306
Just like in the traditional equity parlance, you buy things at a higher price to equity earnings or price to earnings ratio when it's higher growth company.
307
For these guys that are quicker at growing their underlying Bitcoin share, you can probably pay a higher premium to NAV.
308
All right.
309
Well, Cosmo, this has been such a great conversation.
310
Thank you so much for coming on Unchained.
311
Yeah, thanks, Laura, for the time.
312
It was a lot of fun.
313
Don't forget, next up is the weekly news recap, today presented by Unchained producer Pam Majimdar.
314
Stick around for this week in crypto after this short break.
315
BitKey is the only Bitcoin wallet on Time Magazine's best inventions list of 2024.
316
Built by the team behind Square and Cash App, BitKey is a 203 multi-signature wallet and the first hardware wallet with an innovative recovery suite that eliminates the need for C-phrases in self-custody.
317
Their new inheritance feature means BitKey is not just the easiest way to self-custody your Bitcoin, it's the easiest way to ensure it ends up in the hands of loved ones when it's time for it to leave yours.
318
Learn more at bitkey.world, B-I-T-K-E-Y dot world.
319
Use code Unchained for 20% off.
320
Welcome to this week's Crypto Roundup.
321
In today's recap, we cover a $220 million exploit on SUI, Circle's IPO and USDC freeze, a federal judge overturning Mango Markets fraud convictions, and a shocking Bitcoin-related kidnapping case in Manhattan.
322
We'll also look at Arkham's alleged doxing of Michael Saylor's Bitcoin holdings, Sam Bankman Freed's potential early release, strategic Bitcoin reserves in the U.S.
323
and Pakistan, Kobe's new token sale platform, and OneTrader's dramatic rise and fall on Hyperliquid.
324
Thanks for tuning in to the weekly news recap.
325
Let's begin.
326
SUI Network Way's bold move to reclaim stolen funds.
327
Following a $220 million exploit on the CETAS decentralized exchange, the SUI network is voting on a proposal to forcibly retrieve $160 million still held in the attacker's wallets.
328
If approved, validators will execute a network upgrade that overrides wallet control and transfers the funds to a multi-stake wallet managed by CETUS, the SUI Foundation, and security firm Ottersec.
329
The May 22 attack exploited flaws in CEDAS's smart contract math, allowing the attacker to use fake tokens to withdraw real assets.
330
Although $60 million was already laundered, the majority remained.
331
Support for the vote currently stands at 80%, with early passage possible by May 29.
332
The proposal includes compensation to affected users using recovered funds, CDIS's treasury, and a loan from the SWIE Foundation.
333
This unprecedented action has sparked debate over decentralization, with critics warning of future implications.
334
Quote, taking a heavily opinionated stance to censor is a slippery slope, said David Rodriguez of Blockworks Advisory.
335
Circle kicks off IPO bid and draws BlackRock interest.
336
Circle is pushing ahead with its long-anticipated initial public offering, aiming to raise approximately $600 million through the sale of 24 million Class A shares.
337
According to its latest SEC filing, the offering includes 9.6 million shares from Circle itself and $14.4 million from existing shareholders.
338
If successful, the IPO could value the company at over $5.4 billion.
339
Quote, becoming a publicly traded corporation on the New York Stock Exchange is a continuation of our desire to operate with the greatest transparency and accountability possible, said Circle CEO Jeremy Alair.
340
Investment giants are taking notice.
341
BlackRock is reportedly planning to acquire up to 10% of the offered shares.
342
The firm already manages a $53.5 billion government money market fund that backs 90% of Circle's USDC reserves.
343
Meanwhile, Circle has frozen $57 million in USDC linked to Argentina's controversial Libra token.
344
The freeze follows a court order tied to a lawsuit over alleged investor fraud involving Solana-based wallets.
345
Judge overturns fraud convictions in Mango Markets case.
346
federal judge has vacated key fraud convictions against Abraham Eisenberg, the trader accused of exploiting Mango Markets for $110 million.
347
The ruling, issued by Judge Arun Shubramanian, found that New York prosecutors lacked proper venue to bring the case and that the evidence did not meet the legal threshold for fraud.
348
There is no allegation that the Mango Markets platform had ties to New York.
349
Judge Shubramanian wrote, noting Eisenberg carried out the exploit from Puerto Rico.
350
Attempts by prosecutors to link the case to New York through a user and vendor were ruled insufficient.
351
Eisenberg was acquitted of wire fraud, with the court stating that the decentralized platform's lack of clear rules undermined the charge.
352
Mango Markets was permissionless and automatic, Shubramanian said.
353
While the Justice Department may pursue the vacated charges in another jurisdiction, Eisenberg remains in custody, serving a four-year sentence in an unrelated case involving child sexual abuse material.
354
Crypto investor charged in brutal Manhattan kidnapping.
355
A cryptocurrency investor in New York has been charged with kidnapping and torturing an Italian man in a bid to access his Bitcoin wallet.
356
John Wolz, 37, was arraigned in Manhattan on Saturday and is being held without bail on multiple felony accounts, including kidnapping for ransom.
357
According to authorities, the victim, Michael Valentino Teofrosto Carterin, was lured to a Soho townhouse on May 6, where he was allegedly ambushed by Wolds and accomplices.
358
Carterin, a former fund partner of Wolds, was reportedly beaten, electroshocked, threatened at gunpoint, and even dangled from the top floor of the five-story home.
359
He told police that he was forced to smoke crack cocaine and had his leg cut with a saw.
360
A third suspect, William Duplessi, surrendered days later.
361
Authorities say the suspects aimed to extract cryptocurrency keys potentially worth millions.
362
The investigation remains ongoing.
363
Saylor rejects on-chain transparency as Arkham allegedly reveals Strategy's Bitcoin holdings.
364
Michael Saylor, executive chairman of Strategy, formerly MicroStrategy, ruled out publishing on-chain proof of reserves, citing security risks.
365
Speaking at a sideline event during Bitcoin 2025, Saylor called the practice a, quote, bad idea, warning that disclosing wallet addresses could expose the company to hackers, nation-state actors, and other threats.
366
Quote, you publish your wallet, that's an attack vector, he said.
367
Saylor argued that institutional-grade audits, not public wallet disclosures, are the appropriate standard for financial transparency.
368
Just two days later, blockchain analytics from Arkham claimed it had identified Strategy's primary Bitcoin address, reportedly holding $454,231 BTC worth $48.8 billion.
369
Arkham further asserted it uncovered an additional $70,816 BTC, bringing the total to $54.5 billion, roughly 87.5% of Strategy's known holdings.
370
The platform tagged addresses linked to custodians, including Fidelity and Coinbase Prime.
371
Quote, Saylor said he would never reveal his addresses, so we did, Arkham wrote.
372
The public disclosure sparked backlash online, with critics accusing Arkham of disregarding privacy and undermining the exact concerns Saylor had raised.
373
Bankman Freed could see early release.
374
Sam Aikman-Free, former than his original sentence, according to the Federal Bureau of Prisons.
375
Initially sentenced to 25 years in March 2024 for orchestrating an $11 billion fraud, Bankman-Freed is now projected to be released in December 2044.
376
The revised date reflects possible sentence reductions through accumulated good conduct time, credit for time served before sentencing, and a participation in prison programs.
377
The Bureau of Prisons allows qualifying inmates to earn up to 54 days off per year for good behavior, though such reductions remain contingent on continued compliance.
378
Bankman-Fried was convicted in 2023 on seven counts of fraud and conspiracy for funneling customer funds from FTX into his hedge fund, Alameda Research.
379
He is currently held at a low-security prison in San Pedro, California.
380
His former associate, Carolyn Ellison, is also set for early release in 2026 after receiving similar reductions.
381
U.S.
382
and Pakistan Advanced Strategic Bitcoin Reserve Initiatives.
383
Governments in both the United States and Pakistan are formalizing plans to hold Bitcoin in official reserves.
384
At the Bitcoin 2025 conference in Las Vegas, Pakistan's special assistant to the prime minister on blockchain, Bilal bin Saqib, announced the creation of a government-led strategic Bitcoin reserve.
385
He stated that the reserve is intended for long-term holding and would, quote, never ever be sold.
386
Pakistan has also allocated 2,000 megawatts of electricity for Bitcoin mining and AI data centers to support related infrastructure.
387
In the U.S., White House crypto advisor David Sachs outlined how the federal government could expand its existing strategic Bitcoin reserve, which currently consists of around 200,000 BTC obtained through forfeitures.
388
The reserve was established.
389
Sachs noted that acquiring additional Bitcoin would depend on budget-neutral strategies developed by the Treasury or Commerce Department.
390
Speaking at the same event, Vice President J.D.
391
Vance urged Congress to pass pro-crypto legislation and reaffirmed the administration's commitment to firing regulators seen as hostile to digital assets.
392
Kobe launches Sonar to reinvent ICOs.
393
Jordan Fish, known in the crypto world as Kobe, has unveiled a new public token sale platform called Sonar, designed to modernize the initial coin offering model.
394
Developed under his investment platform Echo, Sonar allows blockchain projects to self-host token sales using configurable tools for compliance and distribution.
395
Unlike traditional launch pads, Sonar does not aggregate or promote token offerings.
396
Instead, it enables projects to customize their sale terms and host directly unsupported blockchains, including Solana, Cardano, and Hyperliquid.
397
Quote, at Echo, we don't really like launchpads.
398
We think the incentives are a mess, the team wrote on X.
399
Sonar's first live offering is from Plasma, a blockchain built for stablecoins.
400
Co-founder Paul Fux said Plasma will offer 10% of its XPL token supply, aiming to raise $50 million at a $500 million valuation.
401
The sale involved stablecoin deposits and lock-up periods, with distribution set to follow Plasma's mainnet beta launch later this year.
402
Time for fun bits!
403
Trader turns $87 million win into $13 in record time.
404
James Wynne might want a name change.
405
The crypto trader racked up a staggering $87 million in profits on Hyperliquid in just 70 days, riding high on meme coins and 40x leverage.
406
But then came the plot twist.
407
According to Look on Chain, Wynne's fortune vanished between May 23 and May 28, leaving him with a wallet balance better suited for a vending machine.
408
His latest claim to fame?
409
A $529 million Bitcoin position that's underwater by $2.1 million and just $13 left in realized gains.
410
Wynn bet big on coins like Pepe, Trump, and Fartcoin.
411
The market clapped back.
412
Hard.
413
Turns out the only thing hyper about Hyperliquid was the speed of his downfall?
414
Ouch.
415
And that's all.
416
Thanks so much for joining us today.
417
If you enjoyed this recap, go to unchainedcrypto.beehive.com.
418
That is unchangedcrypto.beehive.com and sign up for our free newsletter so that you can stay up to date with the latest in crypto.
419
Unchained is produced by Laura Shin with help from Matt Pilchard, Wanaranovich, Margaret Curia, and me, Pama Jumdar.
420
The weekly recap was written by Wana Ronovich and edited by Stephen Ehrlich.
421
Thanks for listening.