--- METADATA START ---
Show: AI + a16z
Episode: Building AI Systems You Can Tr…
Host: Derek Harris
GUESTS: Scott Clark, Matt Bornstein 
Guests: Scott Clark, Matt Bornstein
Source URL: https://podcasts.apple.com/us/podcast/building-ai-systems-you-can-trust/id1740178076?i=1000709586075
--- METADATA END ---

1
After helping people optimize models for about a decade and a half, I came to a really interesting realization that I was solving the wrong problem.
2
And foundationally, it was that the thing that's holding back people getting value from these AI systems is not performance.
3
It's not about squeezing out that last half a percent from some eval function or some performance metric.
4
It's about being able to confidently trust these systems.
5
And I can't tell you how many times over the decades we would help someone optimize a system and they would say, okay, but what did you break?
6
What bad behaviors are you introducing?
7
What lack of robustness do I now have because I've overfit this system?
8
And we're seeing people do the exact same thing again today with LLMs, where they're focusing on these high-level metrics, these end outputs, these performance evals, and that ends up masking all of these potentially undesired behaviors within the system itself.
9
Welcome to the A16Z AI Podcast.
10
I'm Derek Harris, and I'm joined this week by A16Z partner Matt Bornstein and distributional co-founder and CEO Scott Clark for a deep dive on deploying and testing AI systems, particularly, but not exclusively LLMs, in enterprise environments.
11
We cover a number of topics under this broad umbrella, but the focus was really on how enterprise users can and are trying to establish a trusting relationship with AI so they can actually put it to work on important work and scale their deployments beyond small projects.
12
Generative AI can be inherently chaotic at a systems level, so it's a process that involves invoking some level of control over usage and lots of monitoring and testing to track behaviors and ensure small changes to one part of the system, the system prompt, for example, don't have unexpected impacts in other parts, including customer-facing outputs.
13
The discussion begins with Scott giving his somewhat tongue-in-cheek definitions of machine learning and artificial intelligence before sharing some of his background, including the hard-earned realization that trust, not performance optimization, is the biggest factor in how heavily large companies will deploy AI.
14
As a reminder, please note that the content here is for informational purposes only, should not be taken as legal, business, tax, or investment advice, or be used to evaluate any investment or security, and is not directed at any investors or potential investors in any A16Z fund.
15
For more details, please see a16z.com/slash disclosures.
16
So, can you just define for us what's machine learning, what's AI?
17
Like, as someone who's lived through the ups and downs of this market, I remember answering a similar question, I think, on an A16Z podcast, maybe eight years ago.
18
All right, maybe we can pop in the old answer.
19
Pop in the right here, and I think the answer is somewhat the same.
20
Like, machine learning is the stuff that's now become easy, and then AI is all the fun, new stuff.
21
And then, as soon as it stops becoming the cutting edge, then it just becomes, oh, that's just machine learning.
22
It's not magic anymore.
23
It's not magic anymore.
24
And I mean, you can go all the way back to the old like Dartmouth conference and things like that, of like, oh, spell check is AI because that's an untractable problem.
25
But I don't think anybody would constitute that as AI today.
26
Now, of course, with generative AI, I think one of the big differences is instead of these systems being focused on just kind of like classification or regression, trying to determine whether something exists in a set or what the next element should be, now they're actually much more interactive.
27
And like the types of applications, the types of ways that you can use these systems is becoming so much larger because, I mean, gen is in the generative aspect of them is in the name, but that's fundamentally different, I think.
28
And I think that's opened this whole new wave of value for enterprises.
29
Before we get too deep into the state of the world today, can you quickly talk through like your background and then how you ended up with the realization that inspired DistributionL?
30
It starts about 10 or 15 years ago with my first startup, SIGOPT.
31
That company was based off of my PhD research, and it was all about how we help companies optimize AI systems.
32
So, how do you get a little bit more performance out of a very sophisticated model?
33
And so, this is in the sort of traditional machine learning days, right?
34
Exactly.
35
This was all traditional first-wave ML and AI.
36
The definition of AI has obviously shifted over the last decade or so, but it was, yeah, tuning XGBoost models, tuning like ConfNets, tuning reinforcement learning algorithms, that sort of thing.
37
But it was all about how do I tune all the different parameters.
38
And now, of course, these parameters still exist with temperature and different ways that you can segment various aspects of these foundational models.
39
But it was all about how do I get this peak performance.
40
And we did this for about a decade and ended up selling the company to Intel in 2020, where I led the AI and HPC division for their supercomputing group.
41
And after helping people optimize models for about a decade and a half, I came to a really interesting realization that I was solving the wrong problem.
42
And foundationally, it was that the thing that's holding back people getting value from these AI systems is not performance.
43
It's not about squeezing out that last half a percent from some eval function or some performance metric.
44
It's about being able to confidently trust these systems.
45
And I can't tell you how many times over the decades of working with SIGOP and going all the way back to my PhD, we would help someone optimize a system and they would say, Okay, but what did you break?
46
Like, what bad behaviors are you introducing?
47
What lack of robustness do I now have because I've overfit this system?
48
And we're seeing people do the exact same thing again today with LLMs, where they're focusing on these high-level metrics, these end outputs, these performance evals.
49
And that ends up masking all of these potentially undesired behaviors within the system itself.
50
But it's really a much harder problem because instead of just having a binary output, now you have maybe more freeform text.
51
Maybe you have an agentic system that can do all of these different things.
52
And behavior matters more now than ever.
53
But there aren't great systems out there to help you understand, define, and test these systems.
54
And that's really what distributional is aimed to do: trying to attack this problem of confidence through testing instead of just optimization through performance, like SIGOPT was.
55
You were managing a pretty large team at Intel, right, and managing a pretty large customer base.
56
Was that part of what kind of helped you see a different form of this problem?
57
Definitely.
58
That was a big jump from managing a team of about 25 when we were acquired by Intel to leading a team of about 200 by the time I left Intel.
59
I got to see problems at a higher level.
60
And I got to start to see some of the things that some of our customers now are frustrated with, where, yes, it's great to build these models.
61
Yes, it's great to have them be performant and things like that.
62
But at the end of the day, if you're responsible to your customers, whether they be internal or external, you care about reliability.
63
You care about consistency.
64
And we kept running into problems there.
65
And I mean, people are running into this problem across the Fortune 500 and Global 2000 today of, okay, how do I sleep at night effectively?
66
And I couldn't find a good solution when I was at Intel.
67
I couldn't figure out a way to outsource.
68
And so, like any good entrepreneur, if you have a problem and then you see it's a very pervasive problem, you can't see the solution, you go try to build it yourself.
69
And it's been really exciting to do that again the second time.
70
Again, taking all of those past learnings, all those past mistakes.
71
I've made a ton of mistakes as just a naive PhD student trying to build a company.
72
I won't force you to go through the mistakes that you made.
73
Maybe that's for a follow-up podcast.
74
Yeah, we'll need a handful of podcasts to enumerate all of those.
75
But now we get to do it again and now make all new mistakes 10 times faster.
76
We work with a lot of founders who cycle through focus areas very quickly, which can be great.
77
That's a great way to sort of find product market fit.
78
I think your persistence is rare in a sense, where actually spanning three companies, you've sort of worked on a similar core problem, and you're just really almost obsessed with finding the right way to solve it.
79
What was it like to sort of have this light bulb moment where you're like, oh crap, I wasted X years doing the wrong form of this?
80
Or is it like, oh my God, this is so exciting.
81
Like I finally found the right angle on this problem.
82
Or can you just talk a little personally what that was like for you?
83
Yeah, I think it's more of the latter.
84
And one of the joys of being persistent, for better or worse, is that it allows us to really empathize with the people who are building these systems.
85
And we've been able to work with people doing machine learning, AI, for the better half of a decade or more now.
86
And we get to see a lot of the same patterns, a lot of the same systems, a lot of the same mistakes being made.
87
And we get to help them do a little bit better, do a little bit more.
88
That's really been one of the ethos of both SIGOPT and now distributional.
89
It's about building tools to allow these domain experts to do their expertise better, to do it more confidently, to really not have to worry about some of the things that they know they should be worried about and really focus on where they can apply their expertise to make something great.
90
And it's been great to be able to work with, honestly, a lot of the same types of people.
91
A lot of the people who are now in charge of building Gen AI platforms or productionizing these massive use cases are the same people who built those original machine learning systems.
92
At a systems level, though, how does generative AI compare to those other machine learning systems that these folks have been working on, let's say, in the pre-LLM era?
93
I think one of the main distinctions is how atomic some of these units maybe are.
94
And so with a lot of traditional ML and AI, it was all about: can I make a specific decision?
95
Can I make a yes-no decision on whether or not I have a loan?
96
Can I make a specific prediction?
97
Do I know which direction this stock is going to go in the next minute or something like that?
98
And with generative AI, it becomes much more collaborative and it's much more expansive in what it can actually do, from literally just being able to have a conversation with it to some of these agentic systems that we're seeing come up where now you have a model calling a model, calling an MCP server, calling a model, making a decision.
99
And these pipelines have always existed, but the kind of end-to-end nature of them and how hands-off they can be, how dependent they can be on these internal components and how some of these behaviors can propagate through the system, I think is fundamentally different from the more atomic, like unit-based, almost microservice aspect of traditional ML and AI systems.
100
So I guess what does that mean if for like a product owner, what do they kind of worry about once something goes to prod in kind of new AI land versus traditional machine learning land?
101
Yeah, so I think some of the concerns are the same in the sense that they want these systems to be performant.
102
They have to do better than whatever the status quo is today, whether that's a human or whether that's a traditional machine learning and AI system.
103
But fundamentally, again, and this is the learning that I got after doing this for such a long time, focused squarely on optimization, is it's more than just performance too.
104
It's this behavior of these systems.
105
And it's making sure that not only does it hit whatever KPI you want it to do, but it also doesn't do the bad thing.
106
It doesn't have some sort of undesired behavior.
107
And that undesired behavior could be, I just don't want it to change dramatically without me knowing, or it could be that I explicitly don't want it to exhibit a specific bias or a specific type of response.
108
And I think the main thing that's shifted, though, is just how large that output space can be.
109
There's really three main things that make it difficult to quantify and understand the behavior of these AI systems.
110
And one is that they're inherently non-deterministic.
111
And so this is true of some traditional machine learning and AI systems as well.
112
But basically, the idea here is the same question can get you different answers.
113
And this non-determinism isn't just that the exact same question can get you different answers, but it can also be a very chaotic system where like slightly different questions can get you very different answers.
114
Another aspect of this is that they're inherently non-stationary.
115
And so they're literally shifting underneath you.
116
And this can be because your LLM provider decided to change their infrastructure.
117
And then that changes the way.
118
Or it can be because maybe upstream of your application, somebody added more things to your vector database, or they changed the retrieval prompt, or they changed something else.
119
These systems are constantly shifting underneath you when it comes to a product perspective.
120
And this gets to this third component of the complexity of these systems.
121
It's just getting larger and larger.
122
Again, they're no longer these atomic units where you're just getting a single yes-no answer out of them.
123
It can be these systems where, yeah, you're retrieving and then you're generating a response, and then that response is being fed into another system, being fed into another system where maybe an autonomous decision is being made.
124
And so some of those issues around non-determinism and non-stationary end up just propagating through that system.
125
If it's chaotic at the beginning and chaotic at every step along the way, these very small changes to the input that we're creating, large changes to a single output, can now create massive behavioral changes by the time it actually starts to affect an end user.
126
And so it's really important.
127
And what I think a lot of firms are running into right now is if you're only looking at that last step, if you're only looking at the system's performance as a whole, it can be very difficult to understand when, where, and why behaviors are shifting within this application upstream and be able to use that information to adapt, make changes to your application, or understand exactly what's happening.
128
I think we're pretty rapidly entering a world where trust in AI systems is even more important than their raw performance, right?
129
Because these things are really good at doing a lot of different stuff.
130
But how do users, how do customers actually accept that?
131
Yeah, and that trust can come in many different forms.
132
It can be making sure it's reliable, making sure it's consistent, or even going so far as to say making sure that these kind of latent behaviors are aligned with my desires.
133
And there's obviously a lot of great companies out there trying to solve this at the kind of AGI global level.
134
But for individual enterprises, you want these applications to also be aligned with your business, with the values of your business, with your individual goals, not just trying to squeeze out a little bit more click-through rate, a little bit more retrieval performance or whatever.
135
So it's almost like the enterprise has to trust what the model or what the system is going to do in order for their customers to kind of trust them.
136
Is that sort of a fair way to think about it?
137
Definitely.
138
And like anything in life, it's important to trust, but also to verify.
139
And that's where testing comes in, because you do need to be able to trust these systems, but you want a mechanism to be able to consistently, reliably, and adaptively verify that they're doing this, both as you're making changes, as the world changes underneath you, and as these models change as well.
140
And this is what you're doing at Distributional, right?
141
Definitely.
142
So Distributional is an enterprise platform to allow teams to test these applications in production to make sure that they are behaving as expected.
143
You say behavior a handful of times, but behavior can mean a lot of things to a lot of people when it comes to AI.
144
So how do you define behavior in the context of what you're trying to sell for, what Distributional is trying to sell for?
145
Behavior for these applications ends up being not just what it produces, but how it produces it.
146
So it's all of these characteristics potentially of the text itself.
147
So, not just was this a good answer, but maybe what was the toxicity of the answer?
148
What was the leading level of the answer?
149
What was the tone?
150
How long was the answer?
151
All of these just properties that can be characteristics of just the language itself.
152
But if it's part of maybe a rag system, too, it's like what was retrieved?
153
How often is that what's being retrieved?
154
What were the time stamps related to these individual documents?
155
Was it starting to ignore things that it used to cite all the time, or vice versa?
156
And as we start to get into these agentic systems, and a lot of teams speak about this, I know Google's deep research team spoke about this recently.
157
It's like, well, in the reasoning step, how long did that take?
158
How many reasoning steps did it take?
159
All of these are characteristics for how the model is actually behaving on the way to that end answer, on the way to that performance metric.
160
And I definitely don't want to say the performance doesn't matter because it definitely does.
161
And that's an aspect of behavior.
162
You want good behavior, you want good performance, you want consistent performance, but it is fundamentally this very high-level bit.
163
And it can mask all of these underlying latent behaviors that could have an effect on the system.
164
And especially because these are inherently non-stationary and chaotic systems, you want to be able to catch those latent behaviors as quickly as possible.
165
And some of them might actually turn out to be things that you want to be performance metrics, much in the same way that with traditional machine learning, fraud detection, you want to be as accurate as possible.
166
But by detecting that you have bias, maybe you want to factor that into your performance metric over time.
167
And this is about adapting that desired behavior over time as you learn more.
168
And then what you do as well, too.
169
Because at the end of the day, if you have a lawyer or something, having a high score on the LSAT's great, but that doesn't tell you anything about how they're going to behave in the courtroom.
170
So AI, you know, bedside manner or courtroom rabbitas.
171
And there's so many classic examples, too, from traditional ML and AI of, and you'll remember some of these, I'm sure, too.
172
You train a reinforcement learning algorithm to pitch a baseball, and it decides that just running the baseball up to the catcher is the most effective way to do it.
173
And you're like, well, okay, I did just tell you to get the ball in the mitt.
174
You technically solved it, but that's not great.
175
But even in these Gen AI systems, like there's this classic example that came out recently of chess, where if you just tell it to win a chess game and you give it access to board state, it's going to rewrite the board state to win.
176
And that's an example of a behavior where, yes, if the performance metric was games one, it's got a great performance metric, but the behavior was it cheated.
177
One thing that we've seen that's really interesting over the last year, year and a half, is people have started to shift from kind of science project prototype land where they have a bunch of individual teams trying to roll their own stack and trying to like build everything that they need to get something out individually into starting to build more centralized platforms.
178
This is again very similar to what we saw in the early ML and AI days where maybe every individual data scientist was like, I'm going to spin up scikit-learn and I'm going to have all my data locally and I'm going to have some model that works incredibly well for rapid prototyping and exploration.
179
But when it comes to exploiting these models and really making sure that you can do it at scale, making sure that the organization can protect itself, can really leverage all of its resources, you want to have more centralized tooling.
180
And so, much in the same way that we saw the rise of ML and AI platforms over the last decade, we're now starting to see the rise of these Gen AI platforms.
181
And this has organizational benefits from, again, making sure you can scale, making sure you have proper cost allocations, but it can also really tamp down on a lot of what we're hearing from CIOs and CTOs of kind of shadow AI.
182
People calling models they shouldn't, feeding them things that they shouldn't, creating vulnerabilities that they shouldn't.
183
And so, this is the perfect kind of harness to start to do testing, though, as well, too.
184
Because once you have this centralized Gen AI platform, once you have a gateway or a router that's logging all of your API requests, all of your traces, et cetera, testing can live on top of those logs, on top of that data store to give you this more holistic view across all of your applications.
185
How are they behaving, which ones are behaving differently, and provide that behavioral analysis and testing to the end developer for free as part of that platform?
186
And so, is this shadow IT problem worse with language models and generative AI compared to the past?
187
I would say so because everybody's doing it.
188
You had to know what scikit-learn is.
189
Yeah, you know, exactly.
190
And it was a somewhat localized problem because, like, you're doing data science on your laptop versus now I'm just shipping off a secret IP to some SaaS company or something like that.
191
And it's really easy to do it.
192
We just need an API key, basically.
193
Exactly.
194
I mean, it's great that all these developer tools exist and they've made it really easy.
195
The downside is they've made it really easy for people to do things they shouldn't do.
196
So not only do you have the benefit of centralization and scaling and support and things like that, you're also mitigating the harm that sometimes is accidentally being done where it's like, oops, I guess our code base is now public or whatever it may be.
197
So if I'm a technology executive at a big company right now experiencing this phenomenon of little AI projects popping up everywhere, some of them doing really well and actually becoming important parts of our business, what should I think about doing, just practically speaking, to kind of get my arms around this?
198
And what should I think about building to reach kind of like this target state of like platform nirvana?
199
So we see a lot of different variations of this, to be honest, across all the different companies that we're talking with or working with.
200
And I'd say there's two things that they're trying to solve here.
201
One is trying to make a platform be useful enough to basically draw in these people who are saying, no, don't worry, I've got it covered.
202
Like I've built my own stack.
203
And so some of that is by providing value-add services.
204
So it's like, we're going to take care of scaling for you.
205
We're going to take care of cost optimization for you.
206
We're going to take these things off your plate.
207
And one of the things that they do is like, well, we'll build kind of a centralized router so you can access all of these great LLM models.
208
And we're going to basically create a store that you can switch between versions and models and things like that.
209
We can centralize logging as part of this.
210
So you don't have to deal with the fact that this is producing maybe a large number of logs.
211
And on top of that, too, you can provide testing.
212
So now we can do this layer of making sure that you can detect and understand these underlying behaviors.
213
And this is fundamentally different than the way a lot of people are rolling this today, because if you're using one of these kind of all-in-one out-of-the-box platforms focused on developers, they allow you to get going very quickly, but maybe they're not logging everything, or maybe they have very rudimentary monitoring that is just looking at a handful of performance evals, or they have the ability to kind of look at individual inputs and outputs and do hand annotations, but it's very difficult to do that at scale.
214
And so for these technology executives, they need to be able to come up with this way to create this kind of uniform or lowest common denominator interface so that everybody can leverage it.
215
But then they also have to provide that value add, and we're seeing this from a lot of executives to entice people to move onto that platform.
216
I mean, you made an interesting point about giving developers a reason to want to get onto the platform.
217
If I now switch to my developer hat, it's like, consume logs for me, that sounds great.
218
I don't know where to stick logs.
219
Test for me, that sounds great.
220
I don't like writing tests.
221
Give me a store that somehow standardizes the interface across a bunch of different LLMs.
222
That sounds less good to me.
223
It sounds like you're just adding a layer between the thing I actually want to use.
224
Just practically speaking, what pieces often come first?
225
And how do you actually do this if this is your job?
226
One of the first pieces that we see is this kind of gateway or router.
227
And some of it is less a value add and more of this is the only way we're going to let you access these things.
228
It comes down to some of these models need to go through a GRC process.
229
It's like we're going to let you use OpenAI, but we're not going to let you use hosted DeepSeek or something like that.
230
And by centralizing that, they can then start to rein in some of the chaos.
231
Here are the 30 different models that we do support and the 20 different versions of each that we do support.
232
Oh, wow.
233
So you're seeing enterprises will actually support that.
234
Because I was sort of picturing in my mind.
235
And different models, different versions have different trade-offs, different costs, different context windows, different rate limits, all these sorts of things.
236
And we're also starting to see more and more people wanting to fine-tune or create SLMs or use more kind of static weight models as well, too.
237
And so it ends up being this difficult infrastructure problem of hosting against a handful of non-stationary APIs, against a handful of internal models, and things like that.
238
Creating this uniform interface ends up being extremely valuable for that developer to be able to pick and choose, to be able to A-B test, et cetera.
239
So one big complication is that sometimes the incentives are misaligned.
240
So OpenAI obviously wants to create the best general purpose foundational models, but an individual business may want a model that solves a very specific problem a very specific way very well.
241
And a developer may just want to be able to get something stood up and integrated into their application as quickly as possible.
242
And so this platform engineer, this technology executive, is kind of stuck between these two things where they need to be able to provide access to all of these cool tools and all of these great abilities while also making it as easy as possible for the developer.
243
And so we've seen kind of two approaches here.
244
One is where they will leverage kind of a Gen AI platform for maybe a cloud provider, and there's many great examples of this from the various clouds, or build up from best-in-class tools.
245
They're going to pick the vector database that fits their needs the best.
246
They're going to pick the log store that fits them the best and the testing solution that fits them the best, et cetera.
247
But fundamentally, they're trying to solve.
248
Here's all the great research that's happening across the world and changing every day.
249
And here's what my developers need to move their things forward.
250
How do I create this kind of universal kind of puzzle piece adapter in between and then provide enough value on top of that?
251
And so that's a real technical problem.
252
If I have 30, as you said, 30 models with variants and fine tunes and all that, like that's actually a real problem that needs to be solved, not just I'm going to lock this down.
253
Yeah, exactly.
254
And something that if you were just trying to get stand something up, you're just going to pick one route, one path, et cetera.
255
After you've built that router or gateway, though, the very next obvious thing to do is say, okay, well, this is actually, there's a lot of data going through this.
256
I should probably log that data somewhere instead of just throwing it away.
257
And that's where they start to leverage sometimes more traditional data stores that they have in place today, where it's like, okay, we already have a way to log API calls or traces or some of this richer information.
258
But once you have those logs, then you can start to do analytics, testing, monitoring, and things like that on top of it.
259
And so it starts to accrue this value and end up looking more like a traditional platform as well.
260
And meanwhile, the developer starts to get some of these capabilities kind of off the shelf.
261
And so they don't have to think about logging.
262
They don't think about having to test.
263
They don't have to think about any of this.
264
They can focus on fine-tuning their prompts.
265
They can focus on building these hygienic systems into their current user workflows.
266
I think a lot of developers, to your point, when they're trying to solve a narrow problem, kind of think they have it covered, right?
267
They've got a handful of test cases.
268
They just kind of play with it for a little while.
269
You know, what people used to call Vibe Check.
270
What really should they be thinking about?
271
And from an enterprise standpoint, what should people be thinking about?
272
We believe that they should be thinking about the holistic behavior of these applications at scale.
273
And so that's not just looking at a handful of performance checks on a small data set.
274
That's not just throwing in your 100 favorite inputs and making sure that you always get your 100 favorite outputs.
275
We talk to a lot of firms that are terrified to cross this AI confidence gap from: I've developed something that works good in theory.
276
How do I actually scale it up in practice?
277
And a lot of times we'll talk to individuals who say, every single time I bring on a new user, every single time I add more data to this, it changes a little bit.
278
And right now I'm doing that incrementally, but when I turn on the fire hose, I have no idea what's going to happen.
279
And I'm terrified about what that is.
280
And this can create this gap where things languish in this prototype phase.
281
They languish in this, I've got this great proof of concept, but I still am terrified to turn it on to a million users, 10 million users, whatever it may be, or turn it on to real enterprise value.
282
And so I think the shift in mindset needs to be not just, does it work the way that I want to look at it, does it work more holistically?
283
Do you have any good stories about things that have gone wrong when people don't test?
284
Yeah, I mean, there's a handful of stories where people think that they're doing the right thing, think that they're, of course, this is a no-regrets value add to the system, and it ends up having these weird trickle-down effects.
285
And so rag has obviously become very prevalent in a wide variety of industries, and people use it for a lot of different things.
286
We've spoken with different firms that they were like, Okay, I'm just going to continue to add more and more data to the corpus because more data is better.
287
Like, of course, but this ends up messing up the retrieval mechanism.
288
And so, where before it all had very recent data and it was giving very good responses because people were asking about things that had a lot of recency, now they put their whole history into it.
289
Now, it's grabbing old stuff and pretending like 1902.
290
Yeah, exactly.
291
I wanted last quarter's earnings, and now you're giving me six quarters ago's earnings, or I wanted this specific entity, and that was relatively unique to begin with.
292
But now that you've flooded it with all these other things, I'm picking up all these things that are kind of around the edges of it as well.
293
Have you seen anything released that upset all their customers or trading strategy that just was a bottomless pit of money?
294
So, thankfully, we haven't seen anything like that quite yet, but there's definitely hallucination remains a problem.
295
And it's one of these things where the system can convince itself that there's evidence that there isn't, or will convince itself that you want an answer that's different than what you actually want.
296
And sometimes that's because it's been given information that it tries to interpolate between.
297
Sometimes it's just trying to fill in the gaps.
298
Like, fundamentally, that's what these systems are trying to do.
299
And that can lead to really bad behavior for users.
300
And it can lead to another example, is people using the system in the way that they've always used it, but for some reason, it's starting to trigger all these guardrails.
301
And it's because intermediate parts of the system have transformed it or morphed it in different ways that all of a sudden it's flipping a switch somewhere.
302
And now they're getting this terrible user experience because they're being told they violated some policy when in reality maybe they only changed a single word in their prompt.
303
Is your belief that AI systems should basically be tested atomically, like in the same way that we had unit tests for traditional software?
304
You can sort of isolate each piece and make sure it's performing up to spec.
305
Is that sort of the same idea for AI systems?
306
I think you need to be able to quantify the behavior atomically, but then be able to test across that behavior more holistically, like a regression test.
307
And so you do want to be able to quantify the characteristics of how the retrieval step is happening.
308
You don't want to just look at the very end answer.
309
But you also want to be able to see how changes in inputs have propagated through the system.
310
I see.
311
And so it's a mixture.
312
And I know you've done some pretty intense math.
313
I'm resisting the urge to ask too many math questions because I know the two of us will go a little too far down the rabbit hole.
314
But I know you have done some pretty sophisticated work as a team to think about the right way to approach these sorts of tests.
315
Did you mind giving just a brief overview of why it's a hard problem and how you've addressed it?
316
Yeah.
317
So one thing that's a little bit counterintuitive and maybe a little bit different than the way people approach evals today is instead of having a small number of strong estimators that can conclusively tell you whether or not something's performing, testing is a difficult problem because, I mean, just being able to quantify behavior and trying to understand what it is that's like intrinsically happening within these systems is a very difficult problem.
318
And this is where we differ a little bit from maybe traditional approaches to LLM eval, because instead of trying to come up with a small number of strong estimators for performance, where we want to be able to conclusively say A is better than B.
319
Instead, what we want is a large number of potentially weak estimators to be able to determine whether or not A is different than B.
320
And you're asking a fundamentally different mathematical question at that level because having these weak estimators that are maybe higher entropy and things like that can give you an insight into the subtle shifts in the way that the system is behaving or acting or processing information that will then have some end result in performance that you actually care about.
321
But being able to correlate that, being able to go back and root cause and be able to say, my performance dropped because this shifted, because this component changed, here's evidence of what distributions shifted, here's evidence of the results that are no longer the same, can be an extremely powerful tool to not only give teams understanding, but allow them to actually react to this.
322
Because one of the things we've seen is when your performance drops, that's helpful because you know something must be broken, but it kicks off this net new research process to be able to be like, okay, now I need to build again from scratch versus performance dropped because this thing is not what it used to be, that gives you this foothold to be able to go fix that.
323
Or maybe not all change is bad.
324
Maybe that's actually something that you want to factor into your performance as well today.
325
So you're almost saying it's like rather than a normal software stack where you're just kind of testing end-to-end what's happening, you're sort of saying you've got some little lab subjects.
326
Exactly, exactly.
327
And it's really upping all of those sensors and probes, basically.
328
So don't just see whether or not lab subject A versus lab subject B was able to complete the maze, but like what was their heart rate?
329
Like what was all of these types of things that then would enable you to say.
330
And so are you effectively doing statistical testing to sort of understand the change in each of these sensors from one iteration to the next?
331
Or just again at a very high level, how does it work?
332
So this gets into the name of the company.
333
We think of all of these things as distributional.
334
And so fundamentally, it's not about having a single input be bad that you might want to trigger or something, but it's about holistically how is this behavior changing in a population setting?
335
How is one distribution of behavior today versus a distribution from yesterday?
336
And that distribution isn't just what's the distribution of performance, but this higher dimensional distribution, this distributional fingerprint of behavior.
337
How has that shifted?
338
And that allows you to get these insights, which fundamentally allow you to root cause and understand your models in a way that you couldn't otherwise.
339
Which is very interesting because there's a lot of talk, especially with large language models, about what's in distribution versus what's out of distribution.
340
And typically people are talking about what was sort of well represented in the training data versus what wasn't, which is important because these models tend to do well at things that were in their training data or similar to and not so well at out of distribution things.
341
I've seen very little actual kind of quantification of this, right?
342
There's a few good papers about it, but what you're sort of saying is for any particular system, meaning using a certain set of models in a certain way with a certain set of prompts, you can actually characterize literally what the distributions are and then sort of check how those change over time.
343
Yeah, exactly.
344
And there's a lot of rich information there.
345
And a lot of it's being masked today by only looking at individual things.
346
It's very cool.
347
I mean, it's really an industry-wide problem.
348
And so, what's the benefit to an enterprise in the end of deploying distribution or something like a testing solution in general?
349
Yeah, so it's more confidence, which allows them to tackle harder problems, to be completely honest.
350
We see some firms attacking the low-hanging fruit internal chatbots to ask questions about HR because they're afraid to take that leap to develop the difficult problem because it's so unwieldy and there is so much risk associated with it.
351
A lot of the most valuable use cases also have the most inherent risk.
352
And testing and confidence is a way to understand and mitigate those operational risks, whether they be financial, reputational, or regulatory.
353
Given what you're seeing in that regard, do our definitions of things like reliability need to evolve as we adopt more generative AI?
354
Like, for example, how can someone be confident a system is going to act the way they expect it to if, say, it's never exposed to real-world conditions?
355
So being able to define like what does reliable mean, it starts with change.
356
It starts with, at least, is today different than yesterday.
357
Like, that's a question you can ask in an unsupervised way because you don't need to have any preference between the two.
358
But then from that, you can start to say, okay, I liked this change.
359
I didn't like this change.
360
You can start to become more and more specific about what types of change are acceptable or not.
361
But just by being able to see differences, then you can start to apply supervision, start to apply a preference for one versus the other.
362
Maybe originally they were just replacing kind of classic NLP models with LLMs and things like that.
363
And they're starting to push the boundaries of what used to be possible, not just making it better.
364
Yes, it's easier than doing LDA to just like hit an LLM or something like that.
365
But now, especially with agents, they're starting to really see what this completely new frontier.
366
But with that, comes a lot of uncertainty.
367
With that, you need kind of a flashlight to be able to say, this is how I understand this.
368
This is how I can really get confidence.
369
So, kind of on the same topic, how should organizations think about change management, cost creep, and that sort of thing as we're tweaking things, or I guess even swapping models in order to settle a system that both delivers what they want and also that they can trust?
370
One thing that we've seen with enterprises, especially over the last six to 12 months, is as they've started to roll more and more applications into production, they start to be able to make different trade-offs and they start to accrue tech debt, to be completely honest.
371
And that doesn't exist when you're first building, but of course, like any technology, it accrues over time.
372
And so, they're starting to try to make trade-offs between, like, hey, can I use a cheaper model?
373
Can I clean up this system prompt that I've just appended to over and over again over the last year?
374
But in order to make that decision, you need to understand what the trade-offs are.
375
What if I switch from this expensive model to this cheaper model?
376
What if I refactor my system prompt or whatever it may be?
377
And so, again, understanding the performance impact is an aspect of that, but understanding how does this change the way that I'm tokenizing things?
378
How does this change the way that this application is behaving?
379
Can also lead to an ability to make these decisions in a more clear-eyed way.
380
And, like traditional software, you have a build, you have a test suite when you're refactoring to say whether or not you actually made it cleaner or you broke the build.
381
And by having good behavioral test coverage, you can now ask that exact same questions with these Gen AI apps: Did I make it better or did I actually break the build?
382
So, you're saying my system prompts shouldn't be full of capital letters and exclamation points and pleading, please, please do what I ask.
383
Potentially.
384
Whatever works for you, again, the right tool for the job.
385
Maybe you can go back and make it one long capitalization, please, instead of a hero on Twitter, whose name I won't say, who extracts system prompts from all these things.
386
And my biggest takeaway from this is the system prompt often reflects the organization it came from.
387
Like it's some new form of Conway's law.
388
You know, Conway's law is this thing that you kind of ship your org structure as a software company.
389
Like, I think as an AI-like, you know, system company or like a prompt writer, you're kind of shipping your org to.
390
It's like the Google one is like very, you know, comprehensive and technical and dry.
391
And then there's the startup one that's like kind of all over the place.
392
So it's an interesting thing you say.
393
Like the system and even the prompt sent to a language model kind of reflects the organization it's coming from and the behavior they're looking for in a way.
394
Exactly.
395
And as you modify that, or as you, I mean, it's nested system prompts all the way down, right?
396
As you modify yours that's calling theirs, like you're going to get different behaviors.
397
And it's a combinatorial mess, even just selecting a model, let alone you exploring system prompt space yourself.
398
And again, having at least insight into the behavioral implications.
399
Because, I mean, fundamentally, once something's actually making money, once something's actually useful, you need to take a little bit more of a conservative stance to make sure you don't break things as opposed to just trying to build something as fast as possible.
400
I just love the idea of every new person, you know, it's like the engineer, then the compliance person, and the marketer, everybody's just tacking onto the prompt.
401
This poor, confused language model probably has no idea what to do.
402
And some of them are conflicting, and like whatever it may be, and policies shift.
403
We've talked to a lot of firms.
404
They're afraid to change that prompt because they're like, well, the GRC team wanted this line in there, and this team wanted this line in there.
405
And what happens if we combine them?
406
But with a system like yours, basically, they're able to check how things change once they do make some of these fixes.
407
That's very cool.
408
So, one thing that seems to be true to me, at least, is that there's a pretty big delta between the people building a lot of the major foundation models and, you know, in the sense that they're more researcher than a traditional entrepreneur and then enterprise buyers.
409
But at least with many previous tech shifts, like it's enterprise adoption and sales that ultimately provide the bulk of revenue for these new technologies.
410
So, how do you see enterprise users ultimately exerting influence over product design?
411
Or is this wave of AI sufficiently novel that even large buyers are just going to have to keep reacting to the model changes that the large labs introduce and maybe have less control or less influence than they might have had historically?
412
Most of these AI labs are not enterprise folks, which is fine.
413
You know, it's a lot of very, very, very smart researchers who know their field very well.
414
But yeah, I'm curious if you see this interface.
415
You know, because I guess some of the very big customers for the big labs do have more influence than ordinary devs.
416
I mean, I think it's going to be a co-evolution where obviously some of these labs are very focused on.
417
And so they're going to adapt to what their users need, and then the industry is going to adapt to the tools that are available.
418
And it's going to be back and forth.
419
It's going to be like the finches on the Galapagos Island.
420
And overall, we're going to get some, I think, specialization.
421
Certain models are going to come out.
422
They're going to solve specific enterprise needs incredibly well.
423
But in general, too, the enterprise is going to continue to adapt to, hey, I've got this new tool.
424
Hey, I have access to this new thing.
425
How can I make it fit?
426
But unfortunately, again, I feel like the platform owner within these enterprises ends up being this connector.
427
And they need to be able to be this interface to this technology while also providing it in a way that's accessible, consumable, and understandable, and ultimately fits the needs of the enterprise, whether that's through testing and auditing and things like that or just scalability.
428
That makes a lot of sense.
429
And you're sort of saying that these enterprise platforms actually have a pretty important role to play and like the whole industry.
430
If I'm sort of understanding, right, because the labs put out what they put out.
431
Developers love experimenting with things.
432
Some of them work.
433
But if there's nobody connecting the puzzle pieces, as you say, that actually could be a real problem.
434
Definitely.
435
And somebody needs to make sure that these models continue to work.
436
These applications continue to work over time as well, too.
437
And I've seen this with traditional ML and AI, and this happens in traditional software, too, where the developer moves on and then it needs to be maintained.
438
It needs to stay up.
439
Yeah, because we don't have like AI ops teams yet, right?
440
There's no dedicated group of people that just try to make sure the system is running.
441
And in the way that we do with sort of traditional, you know, DevOps and things like that.
442
Who gets paged in the middle?
443
Exactly.
444
And who has to figure out whose fault it was at the end of the day, too?
445
Yeah, I think as we see the rise of these Gen AI platforms, we're going to see the rise of more AI ops, the people who have to make sure the system's working and understand when it isn't and then fix it.
446
We talked about global versus local solutions to this reliability problem.
447
What's your view?
448
What should be solved kind of by the industry as a whole versus what needs to, you know, this kind of like local context?
449
Definitely.
450
So I think there's aspects of this that are universal.
451
Just being able to define some of these behaviors and detect large-scale changes in them, being able to set up a system that's able to give you that level of insight, again, at that extremely high level.
452
But then every individual team has different behaviors that they want or things that they don't want.
453
And so very quickly, you need to be able to take from a system like ours an ability to detect change at a global level and then be able to go through a workflow to adapt that and build a better behavioral test coverage that becomes more and more specific and bespoke to your individual application.
454
But fundamentally, that same global level can help many different teams within an organization or even across different organizations get that foothold.
455
And that's what we're trying to develop with our platform.
456
But then beyond the platform itself, that workflow is about fine-tuning it and specifying it to the behaviors that you care about individually.
457
And there you have it.
458
Another episode in the books.
459
As always, if you enjoyed this discussion, please do share the podcast far and wide and keep listening.