--- METADATA START ---
Show: N/A
Episode: David Senra - The Focused Few - Invest Like the Best with Patrick O'Shaughnessy
Host: Patrick O'Shaughnessy
GUESTS: David Senra
Guests: David Senra
Source URL: https://podcasts.apple.com/us/podcast/david-senra-the-focused-few/id1154105909?i=1000706492890
--- METADATA END ---

 Something I speak about frequently on invest like the best is the idea of life's work.
 A more fun way to think about it is that I'm looking for maniacs on a mission.
 This is the basis for our investment firm, Positive Sum, and it's the reason why I'm
 so enthusiastic about our presenting sponsor, Ramp.
 Not only are the founders, Kareem and Eric, Life's Work Level founders, certainly maniacs
 on a mission.
 They have created a product that is effectively an unlock for founders and finance team to
 do more of their life's work by streamlining financial operations, saving everyone their
 most precious resource time.
 Ramp has built a command and control system for corporate cards and expense management.
 You can issue cards, manage approvals, make vendor payments of all kinds, and even automate
 closing your books all in one place.
 Speaking from my own experience using Ramp for my business, the product is wildly intuitive,
 simplistic, and makes life so much easier that you'll feel bad for any company who
 hasn't yet made the switch.
 The Ramp team is relentless, and the product continues to evolve to save you time that
 you would never have dreamed of getting back.
 To me, there is nothing more interesting than technologies that reduce friction for
 other entrepreneurs to be able to build the thing that they want to.
 So much attention has gone to cloud computing, APIs, and other ways of making life easy
 for founders.
 What Ramp has done and is doing is build yet another set of tools in this category.
 To get started, go to ramp.com.
 What's issued by Celtic Bank and Sutton Bank, member FDIC, terms and conditions apply.
 The event is happening Wednesday, May 21st at 12pm Eastern Time, and I'd love to have
 you there.
 Head to alphasense.com/invest to register.
 Again, that's alpha-sense.com/invest.
 Hope to see you there.
 Ridgeline gets me so excited because every investment professional knows the core challenge
 that they saw.
 You love the core work of investing, but operational complexities eat up valuable
 time and energy.
 That's where Ridgeline comes in.
 Ridgeline is an all-in-one operating system designed specifically for investment managers,
 and their momentum has been incredible, with about $350 billion now committed to the
 platform and a 60% increase in customers since just October.
 Firms are flocking to Ridgeline for good reason.
 They've been leading the investment management tech industry and AI for over a year with
 100% of their users opting into their AI capabilities, putting them light years ahead
 of other vendors thanks to their single source of data, and they recently released the industry's
 first AI agents, digital coworkers that can operate independently.
 Their customers are already using this highly innovative technology and calling it mind-blowing.
 You don't have to put up with the juggling multiple legacy systems and spending endless
 quarter-ends compiling reports.
 Ridgeline has created a comprehensive cloud platform that handles everything in real
 time, from trading and portfolio management to compliance and client reporting.
 It's worth reaching out to Ridgeline to see what the experience can be like with a single
 platform.
 Visit RidgelineApps.com to schedule a demo.
 Hello, and welcome, everyone.
 I'm Patrick O'Shaughnessy, and this is Invest Like The Best.
 This show is an open-ended exploration of markets, ideas, stories, and strategies
 that will help you better invest both your time and your money.
 If you enjoy these conversations and want to go deeper, check out Colossus Review, our
 quarterly publication with in-depth profiles of the people shaping business and investing.
 You can find Colossus Review along with all of our podcasts at JoinColossus.com.
 Patrick O'Shaughnessy is the CEO of Positive Sum.
 All opinions expressed by Patrick and Podcast guests are solely their own opinions and
 do not reflect the opinion of Positive Sum.
 This podcast is for informational purposes only and should not be relied upon as a
 basis for investment decisions.
 Clients of Positive Sum may maintain positions in the Securities discussed in this podcast.
 To learn more, visit psum.vc.
 My guest today is David Senra.
 David is the host of the Founders podcast and at Dear Friend.
 This is our third time doing Invest Like The Best Together, and we have conversations
 like this one all the time.
 In today's episode, David distills wisdom from more than 400 biographies of entrepreneurs
 into a single word, Focus.
 He reveals why exceptional builders like Todd Graves and James Dyson create billion
 dollar empires through obsessive dedication to simple ideas, whether perfecting chicken
 fingers or designing vacuum cleaners, all while rejecting conventional growth timelines
 and investor pressures.
 David challenges us all to find the one thing we pursue even without recognition or reward.
 We discussed the concept of anti-business, raising capital as a founder, and decades
 long commitment.
 If I think about founders and try to simplify what it is, I would say that an entrepreneur
 lives 40 years and builds something.
 Biographer spends four-ish years researching them and writing something.
 You spend like 40 hours reading the book and thinking about it and tying it to all
 the other lessons, and then you spend 40 minutes and so we spend 40 minutes listening
 to your summary of that thing.
 If you think about that incredible amount of distillation, like that's a big reason
 it's so interesting and so valuable.
 My first question is to distill it even more, like if you think about the entire project,
 the entire corpus, and we're forced to distill it all, all your work and therefore all the
 work that came before it down to one thing, what that one thing would be.
 One word would be Focus.
 The way I think about this is by the end of this year, I would have studied red over
 400 biographies of history's greatest entrepreneurs.
 I'm like eight years into the project, and if I was forced to distill that down to
 one word, the word would be Focus.
 The reason I think that pops out is because the way I look at this, I've told you this
 before, we've talked about this a bunch, I feel that when you read a biography of
 somebody or an autobiography is even a better example of this, I feel you get to have
 a one-sided conversation with somebody, and obviously if I do a monologue podcast,
 I like to talk, and so I can't talk, so I'm just forced to sit there and listen,
 and I feel that person is telling me, you know, most important parts of their life,
 their 40, 50, 60-year career.
 Then I go online, you know, and we live in this very modern environment, I open
 up Instagram, I look at TikTok, look at X, and it's like, oh, the exact opposite
 of what this person did their whole career and what I've just spent 40 hours doing
 is this.
 It's like, let's not focus on something for 40 years or five decades or even 40 hours.
 Let's focus on it for four seconds.
 We were on the walk over here.
 I mentioned the point where I was like, maybe the best thing for me to do because
 where I do is like, what I get joy is just literally like, I like to spend about half
 my, oh, the time that I'm awake alone, and most of that is reading.
 I get a lot of joy out of that, and then the way I feel after I read a good book
 or I even make an episode that I'm proud of, and then the way I feel like when I go
 online, I'm like, oh, these are like the complete opposite.
 They're at the contrast, and one is feeds my soul and one is good for me, and one is
 the opposite.
 And so I told you, I was like, maybe what I should do is just like not read online
 at all and just post all day long about the stuff I'm reading.
 Like use it as a tool instead of a giant distraction where I think a lot of people,
 like, it's just completely destroying their ability of focus.
 And I think it's related to maybe why you asked me the question is like, I'm
 very reluctant to like have an opinion on like when you listen to the podcast or
 when we have conversations or we're on the phone.
 If something comes up, it's like, well, you know, Steve Jobs would say, do this or
 David Ogleby did this or Buffett looked it this way or Munger looked it this way.
 It's not like David thinks you should do this because I don't really have an opinion
 on what other people should do.
 I just think of like how I want to run my life.
 And now I'm thinking maybe I should actually like be a little more vocal about, Hey,
 it's kind of weird that the people that were literally the best at what they did
 in their life were completely focused were not in this huge rush.
 They obviously worked very fast, but they're not like they didn't have goals.
 Like when I'm seeing a lot online, it's like, we're the fastest company ever to X
 revenue.
 It's just like, they didn't talk that way.
 Like Sam Walton did not talk that way.
 Coco Chanel did not talk that way.
 And so for all right, they understood they found something love to do and did it for
 an incredibly long time.
 And so I talked about this where I get to meet a lot of great entrepreneurs.
 And my favorite entrepreneurs, I've been the most impressed with, they're all
 over the age of 70, like all of them.
 It was like, who's the young entrepreneur?
 I don't even know any of their names because I'm so focused on this person has spent
 five decades thinking deeply about what they're doing.
 And the stuff they can convey with to you over like a dinner, a phone call,
 a conversation, I just, I don't find that anywhere else.
 And I think that's a complete byproduct of the fact that they were able to focus
 on something for many, many decades, which is completely opposite of human nature.
 I think that is why it's valuable because it's so rare for people to do that.
 Why does that interest you?
 Why is the 50 year version of a business story more interesting than a 10 year version,
 which I'm picking 10 because it's like 10 decades a long time.
 Time is the best filter.
 Time is the only filter that I trust.
 You know, most of the people I cover are dead.
 If they're not dead, their career, at the end of the career, they're an older,
 wiser person and they're passing on these lessons, right?
 And I remember people, I got a lot of pushback when FTX was taking off.
 And all these people were telling me, you got to do an episode on SPF.
 This guy's a genius.
 He's the fastest person to like a $35 million net worth or whatever the number was.
 And so I was like, oh, maybe I'm like missing something.
 That's maybe they're right.
 And we got to talk about Todd Graves in the episode yesterday because I'm really
 proud of it.
 You know, when people ask me.
 Favorite episode now?
 Yeah.
 When people ask me who's my favorite living entrepreneur, they expect me to say like
 a tech entrepreneur.
 It's like, no, the guy that owns Raising Cane.
 So like, what are you talking about?
 Like, he owns 90% of a business that he started in college.
 He's been doing it for 30 years.
 The business is worth at least $10 million, is growing at 30% a year.
 And he refuses to sell.
 What would be the opposite of that, right?
 The slow grind to really perfecting what you're doing before you try to like just
 scale it up.
 There's a great line.
 I think Nick Sleep's partnership letters, which I just did.
 And he's like, we just don't understand where we go to these companies.
 They're losing money and they want to figure out how to get bigger.
 And so lose more money.
 And he's not talking about like an Amazon where you actually have to do that.
 SPF, I'm like, oh, well, maybe I'm wrong.
 Like maybe these people are right.
 And the reason I thought about Todd Graves, because there's so many people in his career,
 which we'll get to, they said, no, you're doing it wrong.
 And he's, and we were younger.
 He's like, damn, they're like experts.
 They're smarter.
 They're like older than me.
 Like, and he started it down himself for a little bit.
 And he's like, wait, no, they didn't know what the fuck they were talking about.
 And so I was really resistant to the SPF thing.
 So I started listening to all these podcasts on him.
 And then when he does podcast, he would like multitask, which my personal hero is Charlie
 Munger.
 I think he's the wisest person I've ever come across, the wisest person I've ever talked
 to.
 And what does he say?
 He's like, you're, you're going to get half-assed effort.
 That is not exact quote.
 Like if you multitask, he just, he single texts.
 Like I'm just focused on whatever's in front of me.
 He's this great quote that I put up that went viral and it's like obvious.
 He's, and he's like, I didn't succeed in life because I'm intelligent.
 I succeeded because I had a long attention span.
 And that's what I'm so interested in to go back to your point.
 But then I started watching this SPF podcast and no disrespect to him.
 I'm sure he's a nice guy.
 I'm not trying to insult him, but he's like, I've been on a bunch of podcasts.
 I've never played fucking video games while I'm doing it.
 Yeah.
 It's like, this is so, first of all, it's kind of disrespectful.
 I was like a human level.
 It's like, you don't even deserve my full attention.
 You know what?
 My phone's not here.
 I'm giving this conversation.
 But then, so I said, okay, well, maybe there's interesting ideas here and then he explains
 what he was doing.
 And then I heard him say something and immediately he said this.
 He's like, well, I actually think no one ever has to read a book.
 And he talks about like, he doesn't read books or books are stupid.
 Should just be a blog post.
 And I was like, oh, there's no way I'm doing.
 What's the chance that this young kid, right?
 He arrived at a conclusion that for the last 5,000 years of humanity, you have all
 these people talking about how valuable it is to write down the lessons from the people
 that came before us and to pick up that book and read the lessons.
 And this guy comes along and says, no, no, just disregard that mass of humanity.
 That's not a valuable activity.
 I'm sorry.
 I'm going to take Munger over SPF every day.
 And I'm so glad I didn't do the episode.
 Because imagine if I had in the founders back catalog history, a podcast on Houston's
 greatest entrepreneur and it's a guy that, you know, was essentially a fraud.
 If you think about that over 70 category of entrepreneur that you've learned so much
 from, what do they do most differently in contrast to the in a hurry, fastest to 100
 million ARR type entrepreneurs that you've also spent time with?
 One, they just, I think, great anything takes time.
 Like a great business takes time.
 You can be phenomenal.
 If you look at the early days of Amazon, obviously, Jeff was really gifted.
 He's really smart.
 He was doing a lot of smart things even before he started Amazon.
 But if you look at how good he was and how great the business was, a decade to three
 decades in, I always say this, quote, and I think it's dead right.
 It's fascinating that everybody in technology has read zero to one, right?
 If you're only going to read one book, probably that would be the one to read it.
 I think it's excellent.
 But they missed the part of what he says in there, where he's like, hey, there's
 a big problem with technology companies is they optimize for growth at the expense
 of durability.
 But if you look at when do these giant companies, and he said tech companies, but you see
 this in all these companies raising Keynes is another example, where like they actually
 make more money, three, four, five, six decades into the future, all the real monies out
 there.
 So therefore, if you're optimizing for growth at the expense of durability, you're never
 going to get to the real rewards.
 And the reason you do that is because growth, you can track and durability, you cannot.
 And I just did this episode in Ken Griffin.
 And it was fascinating.
 He's founded Citadel, I think 35 years ago, and I think he founded Citadel's
 security is 23 years ago, and he just said, we've had the most, the best financial years
 of our entire life in the last four years.
 He's 30 years, 30 years into that business is the best time he's had.
 And you know, hopefully he keeps compounding that.
 So where does the durability come from?
 Like, like, how do they, those long stories, how do they earn the durability?
 I think what this really comes down to, like you're kind of hitting at this, I think
 this is why even though I'm not an investor, I do like your framing of like trying to
 back people that it's their life's work.
 I am very interested in people that have a mission, and I don't know why.
 It took me 32 years to find my mission, another five and a half to make it to where it can
 actually support my family.
 And then, you know, now I realize like, oh, this is it.
 This is the thing I'm doing.
 I want to tie into something I just said, you guys actually made this great profile
 and Neil, yeah.
 And what I would say is there's a lot of good quotes in there.
 I feel like I should do like a miniature, like episode, bonus episode on that one.
 He gave this analogy of like, um, of the helicopter.
 It's like most people are like doing due diligence on a company or whatever.
 And they're at like 8,000 feet and they maybe go, they'll help it down to 5,000 feet.
 And they're like, oh, we did our job.
 They're like, no, no.
 Neil lands the helicopter, then gets out of the helicopter, then goes underneath
 the helicopter and then puts his hands in the dirt.
 And I read that.
 I don't think of any entrepreneur living.
 I think, oh, that's Walt Disney.
 That's Steve Jobs.
 That's Estee Lauder.
 That's all the people that admire.
 That's Todd Graves.
 It sounds like I heard stories.
 I was just at this dinner last weekend for somebody who knows Ken and they asked what
 episode I'm working on.
 I was like, oh, I'm working on an episode, Ken Griffin.
 And they were telling stories that were very similar to that, paying attention to
 even the tiniest corner of the business.
 You wouldn't even think he's paying attention to it.
 But he's paying attention to it.
 But he's paying it to sit there and talk to the person responsible for three straight
 hours to make sure it's being done.
 I just like people that take what they're doing seriously.
 The feedback on the tug race episode, it's absolutely ripping.
 The only negative feedback is like, I can't, because he says in the episode that he believes
 that God put him on earth to be good at chicken fingers to help people.
 So he can make a lot of money and he does a lot of charitable work.
 And people are like, you know, they think they're smart and they think they're smarter
 than him.
 Essentially what they're saying is like, have you built a $10 billion company?
 Have you done that?
 Are you the best in your profession?
 Are you the top of your craft?
 It doesn't matter what the craft is.
 At least he has a mission.
 You may laugh at his mission.
 You think it's ridiculous, but one, I know he believes it for a fact or he's a world's
 greatest actor for three decades, right?
 And we can go through the level of commitment that he had to make that dream real, right?
 And you can make fun of the fact that he's a mission, but it's like, he's already
 ahead of most of humanity that is alive today and has ever lived.
 Most people don't have a mission.
 There's a great example of this in Steve Jobs that he was heavily criticizing earlier
 of his career because he would make the inside of the computer that you couldn't even
 open up.
 Beautiful.
 And people, you're wasting your time.
 It wasn't a waste of time to him.
 The reason I like the Graves one so much is because it's chicken fingers, like the
 object of his obsession is like this sort of low status thing.
 I think so many people would love to build a fancy piece of technology or something
 very sexy as their lifelong mission or something.
 But in many of my conversations with you, the object of obsession is something very
 simple, like chicken fingers.
 And I just think chicken fingers is like, it's such a visceral thing.
 You've all eaten chicken fingers, and a man like Todd has devoted himself to one thing.
 I think you said on the episode, he won't even make people want to this sandwich and
 he just took his chicken fingers and put buns around it and that's the sandwich.
 Like he is singularly obsessed with this chicken finger dream.
 And I love the question now, what is your chicken finger dream?
 And chicken fingers better than something else because of almost how absurd it is.
 So tell us a little bit more about what you've learned from studying him.
 It was probably my favorite episode of Founders ever.
 And maybe just hit me at the right time and I needed to hear that message right then
 and there to work on something for an absurdly long time, not think short-term whatever.
 Lots of common lessons.
 But what is it about?
 Why do you think this one is so especially this person and this business,
 which is so simple and so lowbrow, so resonant with so many people?
 I truly believe, I am obsessed and we've talked about this all the time.
 I get literally emails, so why do you quote Munger in every single episode?
 And it's just because all I do is listen to this, what I thought this brilliant guy,
 his advice, and I just did it.
 I always say learning is not memorizing information, learning is changing your behavior.
 And there's been a handful of times where I meet people, I read a book, I have a conversation,
 where literally my behavior, my behavior has changed.
 The trajectory of my life has changed.
 The way he was able to describe things to me, he's just like there's a bunch of
 examples and he's like, you know, he knows everything about business history.
 He had 60 years of experience and he would share freely with everybody.
 And he's like, occasionally we find, scaling down and upping the intensity, you get an advantage.
 That sounds like Todd Graves to me.
 He's like, oh, you have my competitors have 10 things on the menu.
 I have one, you can get three chicken fingers, four chicken fingers, six chicken fingers,
 and you want a chicken sandwich, here's two buns.
 And that's it.
 And then find a simple idea and take it seriously as another Mungerism.
 And then what he realized when he analyzed Costco, where he's like, we oftentimes in
 business, we find the winning system goes ridiculously far.
 That's the most important two words in this sentence.
 Ridiculously far, in maximizing and or minimizing one are a few variables.
 I think it was Ken Griffin talked about this.
 I've seen this with a bunch of investors.
 We talked about this as a Richard Rainwater before.
 Jay Pritzker was like this, Sam Zell was like this because we'll tie this to investing.
 It's like, if you bring them a deal and there's like seven different things that have to go
 right, like the chance of every single one going right is very, very small.
 And so like I love what Richard Rainwater would do, where it's like,
 you bring me your idea on one piece of paper.
 You write it on one piece of paper, explain to me in simple words.
 And then at the end, just tell me how much your own money you're putting in.
 And then I'll decide if I'm going to do this.
 These guys, one of the best deal makers, investors of all time, you see it over and over again.
 Sam Zell told me when I got to meet him, it's also in his autobiography.
 He's like Jay Pritzker was the most brilliant financial mind I've ever come across.
 He was like an older brother to Sam, he's like 20 years older.
 And his whole point was like, I'd come to him when I was younger and bring him like,
 okay, there's like six things we have to do.
 And Jay would look at it, he's like, no, one.
 If you nail that, everything else will, everything else will either work out,
 either live or die off of that.
 They go back to win in the huge mania in, you know, 2020, 2021, all this huge tech bubble,
 where Sam Zell goes on CNBC.
 He's like, we works going zero.
 Like, no, not going to work.
 And it was like, at all times high, muscles, spending like 20 million
 dollars, what the case is.
 And it was like asset price, liability mismatch or whatever the word.
 He's like, nope.
 This guy in 1972 did this failed.
 82, this other guy did it.
 This is the company failed.
 Why?
 Because there's only one thing that's important in an app doesn't fucking solve that.
 You're not paying attention.
 And so when I look at Todd Graves, the reason I wanted to do the episode is one.
 I just saw a clip.
 This is what I mean about learning is not memorizing information,
 learning is changing behavior.
 I talked to a lot of people and they're like, I love your podcast.
 And some of them become friends with it.
 And I see the decisions they're making their business like, oh, you don't,
 you're listening and you're just wasting your time because you're not actually
 applying the lessons.
 Take what they did and what they said and see if that works in your business.
 And then actually change it.
 And so I saw a clip.
 And it was a clip, I think on TikTok, where Todd Graves was being interviewed
 on a comedian's podcast, the Oven.
 And he was talking about, he's like, I've been a big believer in always doing
 one thing and doing it better than anybody else.
 And then they kept cutting the clip, you know, it's probably 45 seconds.
 And he talked about, he even got down to the minutiae of how simple is my menu?
 If this, how easy can I make it to select what the customer wants?
 Okay.
 So that customer is now going to take five seconds to decide.
 I go to raise the case, I know exactly what I'm getting, right?
 As opposed to go to McDonald's or another competitors.
 Now it's instead of a 10 second order, it's a 40 second order.
 That mean, make not a big difference when you're having, you know,
 a hundred orders a day and you have one store.
 He's got 800 now.
 It makes a huge difference.
 And he just immediately understood.
 And so when I might, this is how, because of fucking brainwash myself about this,
 I don't think of Todd Graves when I hear that.
 I'm like, oh, that's like Rockefeller going over to one of his employees
 who was soldering, closing up oil cans and says, how many drops of solder do you use?
 And the guy's like 40, have you ever tried less?
 Try 38.
 Okay.
 I tried 38.
 It leaked.
 Okay.
 Try 39.
 Oh, 39 works.
 So we were wasting one drop of solder, which might not make a shit of difference when
 the business is, you know, making a couple thousand.
 That business went up scaling 10, 20, 30 X makes a huge difference.
 All of these people, they're obsessed with their business.
 They're it.
 They're in the details.
 Another thing that Todd Graves said that was very fascinating.
 He's like, I had all these experts tell them, hey, like you should delegate.
 And he has the funny sign goes delegate.
 What does that word even mean?
 He goes, what kind of word is that, right?
 Because he was literally being interviewed in one of the, in one of the, um,
 in one of the podcasts I use as a search material to make mine.
 And he's, again, this, this, this happened in the last few months, maybe a year ago.
 And he stops the interview to look at the Instagram reel because they just had an event.
 I think they were like throwing a Super Bowl party or something like that.
 And he's like, I'm going to watch it before it goes out.
 I don't think of Todd Graves.
 I think of Steve Jobs every Wednesday, having a three hour meeting in Apple,
 reviewing every single ad that goes out.
 Nothing went out of Apple.
 Not a billboard in Missouri.
 Not a, what's on their landing page without Steve looking at it.
 There's a guy that wrote the book called, I think it's called Insanely Simple.
 I think his name is Ken Siegel.
 If I'm, if I'm correctly, if I'm correct by that, he was running.
 He was work.
 He was the ad executive, uh, for the marketing company, the ad company that Steve was using.
 And he said, Steve would call me at midnight.
 And we'd have to talk for an hour about a single word.
 That's obsession.
 That's loving what you do.
 That's taking what you do very seriously.
 I don't care if it's building computers.
 If it's making a podcast, if it's making chicken fingers.
 I just love people that take what they do seriously.
 This idea of anything worth doing, being worth doing for its own sake.
 And my fair maximum, you know, that I've stumbled across,
 I think originally from Kevin Kelly, the editor of Wired magazine was
 that the reward for great work is more work.
 And it seems like so much of the fastest to a hundred million of ARR type thing
 is that the target is something that's not the work itself.
 It's some other thing.
 And that the healthy orientation that you're describing that Todd Graves has
 and all these other people have is actually just towards the work itself.
 And you had this really interesting notion of almost anti-business people.
 Yvonne Schunard is the, the founder of Patagonia comes most immediately to
 mind.
 I love that book of his, I love my people go surfing.
 And so talk a little bit more dig deeper on this idea of
 anything worth doing for its own sake.
 The reward for great work is more work being anti-business as an entrepreneur.
 There's some depth to this that I think continue to pull up the same threat.
 You can change the name of a podcast.
 I can log into my podcast, host and change founders to whatever I want.
 Whatever.
 You can't change the URL slug for the RSS feed for the first name we picked.
 And the first name I picked for founders was telling you from day one.
 Back in 2016, the name of the podcast was called Autotelik.
 Autotelik, the definition of that is an activity done for the sake of itself.
 I was telling you from the rip, I don't care if nobody listens.
 I need to do this.
 I got some advice the other day.
 And they're like, this reminded me of Todd Graves, Henry Ford has the exact same thing about,
 you know, experts, people outside of your business try to give you advice.
 And this is why I like read Twitter.
 I'm like, these people like, sorry, I'm not going to read that tweet.
 I'd rather, I'll just listen to what Steve Jobs said.
 Probably, he probably has better advice than this random fucking guy on Twitter.
 And so somebody goes, hey, I have a great idea for you.
 I hear you thought about hiring other people to read the books for you.
 Like, that's not what I'm doing it for.
 I'm not taking the easy way.
 The heart, I love what Jerry Seinfeld said, the hard way is the right way.
 And so I told them a story.
 And this is the line that this is my response to this.
 And this is the line that I say.
 It's like, you don't work all your life.
 To do what you love.
 To not do it.
 And all I know is that person doesn't have a mission.
 They don't have a love.
 That's fine.
 Most people never do.
 But I don't go around giving advice to people about what they should be doing.
 It's the weird thing where the source of this advice comes from.
 And I remember reading about Charles Schultz, the guy.
 I was a fucking kid and I'd read Charlie Brown and Peanuts.
 Every Christmas, we'd watch Charlie Brown's Christmas.
 Yeah. I think he came out in the 1960s.
 And so I was like, I'm going to read his biography.
 And then you read it.
 And it's like crazy.
 It's like the guy ran.
 I'm going to, these are approximately right.
 He ran the comic ship for like, let's say 40 or 50 years.
 He drew, drew, came up with the idea.
 Penciled everything, drew it.
 I think every single strip over 50 years, I think it was 17,000 different individual ones that he did.
 He had already had one plan.
 So when he dies, this is the lot.
 No one can ever take it over.
 When I die, this is where you put out.
 Like, when I die, this is the last one that's ever published.
 And people would go through it.
 If I remember correctly, it's living somewhere in California to come towards studio.
 At the time, he's on a much older man.
 He's like, 67 years old.
 And they're like, well, who's doing this?
 He's like, what do you mean he's doing this?
 He's like, me.
 And they couldn't, these people, they couldn't wrap their head.
 Like, well, could you hire somebody else to do it?
 So then you could take a vacation or you could take some time off.
 And that was his line.
 He's like, you couldn't understand why they were asking that.
 And he's like, but you don't work your entire life to do what you love to not do it.
 That's why I think thinking a long time, you know, most of this is trial and error.
 Some people find what they love to do really are like, I think a Kobe Bryant,
 the episodes are done on him.
 He's 12 years old.
 He would tell you, I'm going to be the best basketball player of all time.
 There's no one finds what they love to do at 12.
 I'm working on this Michael Dell episode right now.
 You could see from 12 years old, the guy was a money-makers,
 obsessed with computers.
 There's a part in the story that's great where he takes apart an IBM.
 And he has this realization, he says, wait a minute, IBM's selling the computer,
 but they don't make any of the components.
 And like you just see is like a little kid's like, there might be an opportunity here
 that he's going to pursue later on.
 And then he gets in trouble in class because he's not paying attention to class.
 He's just reading computer magazines.
 He's telling you what his life is going to be.
 You just have to listen and every single person has something like that.
 They just don't fucking listen.
 They don't listen to themselves.
 What does it feel like when you find it?
 Because you said earlier, you were 32 before you kind of stumbled on it.
 And then five years after that, was it like actually the full-time thing that you could do?
 Turn a living and much more.
 What was the change and feeling of what does it feel like to do the thing that you love to you?
 Unbelievable relief.
 Like a weight off your shoulders that like, I can't describe it.
 And then from there, that doesn't mean like, oh, I wake up.
 You know, that's like, I'm kind of a tortured person.
 Like, so there was a clip of me on another podcast.
 I just went out and the person's like, you know, the podcast is good.
 If the host looks sleep-aprived, I'm like, that's as bad as good as I can look.
 Okay? Because that's like, my sleep score on my A-sleep right now is like 60.
 Like, it's not, I'm not doing well because I am completely obsessed with what I'm doing.
 And I, you know what's weird?
 Like, people keep telling me.
 It's like, like, you shouldn't be obsessed with this, like,
 most saddest thing.
 I ask, I, I, I don't-
 Five status now.
 Yeah, but I don't even hear it.
 Because I'm like, I, I know exactly where I am.
 And I know exactly what I want to do.
 And we talk about this.
 We have mutual friends that like, they're kind of up so obsessed
 to their detriment about like, what will somebody else think of me?
 Or like, if I do X, well, like, I'm worried about the public perception
 or what my friends will think of me.
 I don't think about that at all.
 There's a great line, the reason that, like, people are surprised
 with some of the people that I want to meet.
 They're still living.
 So I have like, you know, a list.
 And in the top three that list is getting Jimmy Iveen.
 We mean, you share love for the Defying Ones.
 Defying Ones documentary.
 Blast Dance Defying Ones.
 Like those are the best documentaries.
 I'll watch them over and over again.
 And Jimmy Iveen has this great line.
 He's just like, when you're running after something,
 he goes, they do this great editing job where it shows horses on a racetrack.
 And it goes back and forth between that and Jimmy.
 And Jimmy's like, you know what the fucking blinders on those horses?
 And he goes, he goes, because if they look left or right, they'll miss a step.
 And humans should have that too.
 When you're chasing after something, don't look left, don't look right, go.
 And that's why I wake up every day.
 We talked about this when we did that live show in New York City.
 It was obvious if you read the books that the great entrepreneurs,
 once they find what they have, they love to do low to zero introspection.
 Now they think deeply about their business, but they wake up every morning.
 They're not wondering like, what should I do today?
 They know exactly what they're doing.
 And to find that, for me to know, I'm going to wake up and do this.
 For as long as I have a voice, I have eyes, like hopefully I have life.
 Like that's an unbelievable relief.
 Now, because of your mission and because I'm also super competitive and kind of a little crazy,
 our mutual friend, Daniel Ak has the greatest line he told me.
 He's just like, one of the reasons I like you so much is because you're like an LLM
 trained on history's greatest entrepreneurs, but the temperature turned up.
 It's like, yeah, obviously, like some people are not going to like that, and that's fine.
 Then you kind of torture.
 I did this episode on Jensen Wong, and he has a great thing where he doesn't like to fire
 people. He's like, I'd rather to torture them into greatness.
 And then you realize when you how he goes about his life, he actually tortured himself
 into greatness. You know, even this isn't recent few years, they tell a great story.
 Blow out quarter, company's doing incredible.
 And he walks into the meeting and goes, every morning I wake up, look myself in the mirror
 and say, why do you suck so much?
 We've heard that a few times from some exceptional people.
 They're all like this.
 They're all like this.
 Say one click more about this anti-business, you call that anti-business billionaires,
 so that I would get lots of views on Instagram or whatever.
 That's not why I did it though, because that's what I believe them to be.
 I appreciate it. You thought it was clickbaity. I'm not trying to clickbaity anybody,
 although Todd Graves and his $10 billion chicken finger dream was probably good.
 What I mean by anti and it really should be anti-business as usual billionaires.
 And again, I'm my own business.
 I don't care if people say, I want to wake up and all I'm going to do is take a pile of
 money and making it a bigger pile of money and they love it.
 Cool. I have no opinion what you're doing.
 The people I most admire, the people that I'm trying to powder myself off of
 is these people where it's like they have so they're so obsessed about the product quality.
 There's three people in that video.
 It's Evantionard, James Dyson, and Steve Jobs.
 One guy's making outdoor equipment, one guy's making high technology,
 and one guy's making fucking vacuum cleaners.
 But there's the exact same approach where it's like the reasons company exists and
 Jobs has said this multiple times, where the only reason it's sort of company is because the
 product. So the company needs to assemble all the resources, but we exist to make the product.
 And then of course, he talks about profitability a lot because the profits allow you to keep
 making the product. Everything starts from the product. So everything I do, the reason I still
 do every single social media post, the reason I answer all my emails, the reason I don't have
 an assistant, the reason I don't have an editor is because I'm trying to make the world's best
 product. I feel my podcast is a handmade, artisanal, but it just happens to be like technology
 and infinite leverage. Same amount of work is going to go into it. If one person listens
 or 10 million people listen, and I'm trying to build what drives me, and I think annoys
 most of the people that are around me because I can be pretty fucking stubborn about this,
 is that I want to make the best product in the world based on what I like for the best
 people in the world. The very first time we talk, and this is when I think like 3,000 people
 listening back then, and you kind of nailed it on our first talk. You're like, oh, you built
 it. You're going to win by default. You built this polling mechanism, the founder ecosystem.
 By the time people try to do it now, they're going to try to never be able to catch you.
 But it's really important to me as a competitive person that I build the best product for the
 best people in the world. I am not interested. I've told this story before. I know Mr.
 Beast, Jimmy's been very nice to me. He's tweets about the podcast. It's very nice. He's invited me
 to go to his headquarters, and he's like, you can use our studio record here. We'll help you
 with the script. Jimmy's was on a script. We'll give you data analytics people. I don't even
 know how many fucking people listen to the podcast. I don't look at analytics. I build what I
 want for me. So the reason I have to edit it is because when this is done, I listen to it.
 It's the Stephen King thing. I am not just the writer. I'm the first reader. That's what Stephen
 King said. Quentin Tarantino says, when people are like, when you make a movie, do you have an
 audience of mine? He's like, yeah, me. I'm making it for me. What is your own measure of good or
 great for your own product? That I like it. But why? What is it about whatever that
 episode was or the Todd Graves episode or if I stacked ranked there are 50 most recent
 episodes based on the quality, your own perception of their quality. What's different about number
 one versus number 40? What's more true in number one than number 40? What is the measure of goodness?
 I've been thinking about this recently. It applies specifically to the fact that I'm covering
 people that build companies. What I realize is I've never been around impressive people
 in my entire life. We talked about this the very first time I was on your podcast.
 No one of my family even graduated high school, much is college. So it's like, I never saw
 examples of great people. And then you add to the fact that my father, like I'm the son
 of a Cuban immigrant, I grew up meeting people that risked their lives and came over here on a
 raft. And it's like kind of weird. Hey, you have like me both have kids. We love them more than
 life itself. Like I would die for my kids. Everybody would die for their kids. And it's like,
 things were so bad in your country that you risked your 14 year old son's life and put him on a
 boat. Like how bad does that have to be? And I'm like, well, let's go to Miami Beach. How
 many people? How many Americans are getting on a raft and going, that's a one way trip.
 So that tells you something is very special about where we live and very, very bad about
 where they're coming from. And when I realized it's like not being not being an educated family,
 parents never having money, being terrified, growing up terrified, being a loser, it's like
 entrepreneurship is a miracle. Capitalism is a miracle where I meet some of these other
 people where they're like, they might be the son of the grandson of somebody really wealthy.
 And you'll find like a weird, high correlation for like almost like socialistic
 like perspectives. And I was like, this is so crazy to me, just like my wife's from Columbia.
 Like no one, no one in South America is like, that made it to America. It's like, no, I want
 to go back there. Like you don't even understand what you have. And so now what I realized about
 this is like one of the reasons I'm so passionate about this. Yeah, I like to read the most unbroken
 hobby I've ever had. Yeah, I legitimately think podcast or miracles. We were at this
 conference together and you said something really funny. You walk over and every time I'm at another
 table. And I'm like, most of people listen to the podcast, but if not, I would grab their
 phone. You saw me installing it. And then you hit, you had to quip. You're like, I wish I could
 find a way to make money for David's ability to turn every conversation back to podcasting.
 It's like 14 really successful cop-and-alligators and me. I don't even know what the hell I was
 doing there. The root cause is like, I really believe entrepreneurship is a miracle. The fact
 that anybody could say, hey, I have an idea that makes somebody else's life better.
 Cause that's the best. That's all businesses. Business is just an idea that makes somebody else's
 life better. No one can stop me from doing it to delivering value to other people.
 And then if I deliver the more value I deliver to the higher number of people that generates
 wealth, what? Imagine going back to, you know, I might do this episode on Genghis Khan,
 like the 1100s and saying like, you could be the richest person in the world and you could
 you imagine a button and you know, you press that button and anything is delivered to that
 or like, Oh, any other other Sam Walton, I told the story, I was in my beach,
 marine on a friend's boat. And I was like, that boat's huge. Who owns that boat? And I look it up.
 It's like Sam Walton's niece. And I'm like, this guy, I had like this, this great experience.
 I'm looking at this giant boat. It's probably, I don't know, $300 million, some crazy number
 like that. And I'm like, and it came from your uncle just realizing, Hey, if I just
 deliver everyday low prices, again, another simple idea taken very seriously,
 everyday low prices, no one's going to be some pricing. So how do you work backwards from that
 idea? There's all kinds of technologies to the logistics, there's talent, all those
 sounds very difficult. The idea is simple, but the definition is very difficult. And look,
 we can generate. And people shit on Walmart. I had to shop at Walmart when I grew up,
 like I'm not shopping there now. But like, they did a service for my family and for millions
 of people's like, they destroyed mainstream businesses. Like, we couldn't afford
 to not shop at Walmart. It's a miracle that he gave. And what's the ballpark of that? By making,
 I don't know how many people you think shop at Walmart billions by now?
 That's a lot.
 Billions.
 Everyone that's a boy.
 Yeah. He deserves that money. Good. I'm glad he got that money.
 I mean, he wrote a lot in his books about the relationship between simplicity and mastery.
 Yeah.
 And that's, I mean, that's the theme of our conversation, like it shows up over and over
 and over and over again. That conference you're referencing with the capital allocators,
 you know, you said, I don't know why I'm there. Well, I know I were there. Like, I wanted you
 to go because I had a theory, which was correct, which is that the people there were going to
 be more interested in you and your project than, you know, the next guy is like, latest, great
 investment. And I think the reason for that is that everyone recognizes a truth in this basic
 message of the power of finding one's mission and then pursuing it forever.
 And I would just love to hear you riff a little bit on what that has taken for you in the last,
 I guess we met in 2022. So call it three and a half, four years ago, something like that.
 In that period of time, which is when this thing has really taken off, what are your drops of,
 you know, glue or like, what are the things that you've done had to do to make this thing
 better? Because I just want to keep bringing this point to life that like, once you find the
 thing, what kinds of things does it then take to make the thing great?
 So what have those things been for the last, you know, four years?
 I don't even know if I can, um, I have a good answer to that question other than there is
 something that I think is two other lines from longer. Again, I go back to him where it's like,
 he says intense interest in any subject is necessary for like to master it. He has a
 better line of messing it up. And then he says, following up to drift. You know,
 we talk about this all the time where when I describe you to other people, I'm like,
 well, you have to understand Patrick is doing a best, like the best episodes all day long
 every day, like 10 times a day. He just doesn't record them. He's just naturally curious.
 He will, he just want, he's curious around other people in the way that I am frankly not,
 right? I'm interested in books. I don't, I can't like deal with, you know, people.
 That's why I work alone. In general, like obviously I have a handful of very close people,
 but I just think I don't know why there's a great line. So I just did this kind of
 Griffin episode and this, I made the point the episode thing is really important is like,
 I'm not interested in timely. I'm interested in timeless. And so there's no book on can.
 There's a bunch of great stories spread throughout the internet that I use,
 source material. And then I listen to every single thing I could find all these talks.
 And most of every reason he does is like, what do people want to know? What do you think
 about the market? What do you think about this president? But I did find like he had this
 hour long talk at Yale, highly recommend listening to it. Where's like more like,
 almost like an oral biography, like more timeless principles. And then I transcribe
 that. And then, you know, I listen to, I don't know, 30 other hours of him talking.
 And I maybe only made like five or 10 other notes, something small, but something he said
 is very fascinating. He's like, for reasons I don't quite understand.
 Since I was in the third grade, I've been obsessed with the stock market. How does it work?
 How do you make money? What are these problems you can solve? In that line,
 for reasons I don't understand, I truly believe that Jeff Bezos nailed it when he said,
 you don't pick your passions, your passions, choose you. You don't choose your passions,
 your passions, choose you. I was not like, you know, at five years old, wondering like,
 what's a good hobby for self development in my future? I maybe should read.
 I just read. I read. I told you the first time we talked, like my mom before she died,
 she said, I would read the back of cereal boxes. I just, I have no idea.
 And so all I do is like, I'm just intensely interested in everything that I'm learning.
 And then I like the craftsmanship. I heard this idea that Ken has that, again,
 I think is an entire reason that founders is valuable. That's a podcast.
 He says, you really, you want to know what's going on in your business.
 You want to sell your competitors, but you really should be grabbing ideas from other
 businesses far afield from your industry. And he told the story about a way to mitigate his risk
 and he got an idea from Saudi Ramco. Saudi Ramco and Citadel is very different businesses,
 right? Oh, it's the idea. Okay. So I'll explain this.
 Breakthrough. I don't forget that because I'm in the middle of the weave.
 So he was, he uses the term, I think they were like, they were like be a be player in risk.
 They weren't doing well in risk. And he was still in Chicago at the time.
 And he goes and visits Saudi Ramco and he sees this giant screen on a wall on their
 headquarters there. And it's like 30 feet long, 10 feet wide. And it has all the most important
 data, not like a hundred things, but like where the ships are, how many, the barrels of oil
 were producing, like the handful of metrics. And they just look at all day.
 Yeah, they're a distillation. Exactly. What's going to happen? Like you look at all day,
 like then you're going to improve it, right? And he's like, oh, what if we took all the
 important risk metrics and put on a giant wall on our headquarters? And he said it took them from
 like, you know, be player to like one of the best in their field. And his whole advice was
 like, you really need to be taking ideas that are far a field of like your own industry.
 And you know, this what you do when you read a book, like, I'm not going to build Walmart.
 I'm not going to build Ferrari. I'm not building Apple. I'm building my podcast,
 but there's all these ideas that I can take from them. So as I've exposed myself to that,
 I just find like little ideas that I can use in the craftsmanship of the product.
 And one of the main ideas goes back to your question about the anti-billion
 anti-business billionaires. The reason I say, and I do this same book over and over again.
 So I've done an episode 25, episode 200, episode 300, and I'll be episode 400.
 It's James Dyson's first autobiography called against the odds.
 He, it took him 14 years, 5,127 prototypes until he got the first, the world's first
 cyclonic vacuum cleaner that he owned 100% of that was up to his standards.
 And so all I'm trying to figure out is like, can I make something that I would listen to?
 I don't know any other way. And so last week, I actually had a republish and old episode,
 which is still a great episode. But the reason was because I read a book where I
 found the person I did not like, and I don't want to spend any time in his mind.
 So I'm not going to make an episode on him because now I got to finish reading the book,
 which I threw across the fucking room. But then I have to spend another, you know,
 probably. You're reading this one together if it's the one I think.
 Yes. And then I spent another 30, then I just spent another 30 hours making the podcast.
 And it's like, I don't want to be like this person. I'm looking for role models because I
 didn't have anyone I grew up. And then I read a fabulous book that me and you both read,
 "Pappy Land" by Ray Thompson. Excellent writer too. Unbelievable.
 But I couldn't figure out how to make an episode on it because it's really, like,
 it's about a family business. It's really about family. And it's really about the
 relationship between father and son. Like, and I'm very interested in that relationship. I
 think it's the most powerful relationship in the world, which I got heckled at one of our live
 shows when I said that. Why did you get heckled? I don't remember. They were just like,
 because I said it was the most, it's not discounting the relationship between a father
 and a daughter or mother. It's just like, it's clearly something that pops up in these
 biographies over and over again, all the time. And Ray Thompson has great writing about,
 you know, relationship that the grandson had with the father and the father with it.
 There's just a lot of family names. Excellent book. But I was like,
 this isn't good enough that the book was, but I can't make anything good enough.
 So I'm not putting anything out. Nothing. I'm not going to put out something I wouldn't listen to.
 One of my favorite things that happens with you is someone will say something that just
 bothers you and sets you off and gets you going on this stream of lessons that we're
 talking about today that you've learned, that you've shared with people. What other things
 that you see people do bother you the most in business?
 You have a great line on this. Like, you talked a little way more people than I do.
 And I'll ask you about like, oh, is this person, this person reached out and you're like,
 oh, no, he's a casual again. I don't care what people do because there I know I could study
 fucking people's lives for a living. Like so much of what shapes you is like happens when
 you're so young and you can't even describe why you're interested in what you're interested in.
 But I think the only thing that bothers me is like, there's a great line that I mentioned
 in the Obits episode that mediocrity is invisible until passion shows up and exposes it.
 And so much of the people that you meet so many of the products that you deal with,
 so many of the people, it's just like they're casual. They have a casual
 effectation about them that I find personally disgusting.
 And I'm not, again, it's not like a grown judging people. This is going to make me
 sound like a terrible human being. It's just like, it's a way for me to filter who I want
 to spend time with. And my favorite people to spend time with, like they're all, they all
 work in vastly different things, but they take what they do so seriously. And it's not a
 selfish thing. They're making something that they feel makes somebody else's life better.
 So the only thing I could think of is like, I don't like the casualness.
 And then I'm not a fan personally of like the over-financialization of business.
 I think a lot of people aren't starting companies. They're creating financial instruments,
 which is fine. But I think you're going to realize they just, these kind of people just
 don't have enough experience and they haven't read enough biographies or realize like,
 you think what you want is money. But what you really want is meaning. You're going to get the
 money and then you're going to be like, why am I so unhappy? Because you're a human and this
 happens over and over again. That doesn't mean people don't like money and obviously
 solves a lot of benefits, but you're going to feel a lot better.
 If you think about the reasons that people sell a business, typically it's either because
 they have a chance to make a tremendous amount of money or some amount of money,
 or it's because they're tired of the thing of the business, therefore of the product of the
 whole endeavor. Why do you think that the money thing has become, I would think about it as like
 a false idol or something. Like it has become the unit of interest, of obsession, of showing off,
 of status, of all this kind of stuff. What's your theory for why this seems to have
 inflected like so crazily in the last couple of years?
 Well, now we have like a giant mirror into everybody else's life we never had like this
 way. Like thinking of like one good thing about decentralization of media is like,
 there's no gatekeepers. That's also the bad thing in the sense of like now there's somebody
 just put me on to crazy rich Asians of TikTok. And it is some of the most
 difficult that one. We should all send you some clips.
 And it's some of the most disgusting behavior. Like one lady is I guess her parents own,
 she lives in California, but her parents own one of the largest like cloud computing companies
 in China. Another one is like some giant, maybe even like government collusion in
 Singapore or something like that. But it's like all the all the videos,
 all the videos are just straight consumption. It's, look what I got. Me and my,
 and they do this thing where it's like, me and my mom went shopping today. And we spent
 25,000 of Van Cleef, and then we bought a herme thing. And we did this. And it's like,
 this is disgusting behavior, because you shouldn't take pride in what you consume.
 That doesn't take skill or talent. You shake pride in what you built.
 That is the most selfish thing you could possibly do. And I'm not a guy. Like dude,
 like I'm building the goal here is to, you know, to change the trajectory of my entire
 family tree. I'm going to build generational wealth, not so my kids can do that shit.
 That'll never happen. But to try to teach them, it's like, man, the wealth came because
 you made somebody else's life better. You dedicate it. It's a, it's a selfless act,
 even if you love it. And this idea that like we are, so I understand that it's like, so then
 young people see that and they're like, oh, that I need to figure out how to make money.
 And I was like this, like, I was so embarrassed when I was younger, that I had to like, how
 much I had to work or like, I didn't have a car or like all this other stuff that happened.
 I remember being deeply, deeply embarrassed. And then switching from embarrassment to like,
 almost, uh, like relentless self belief that like, I am better than that person. Like,
 I remember going, there was this kid that lived close to like, went to the same school as me.
 It was a public high school, but I remember the crazy story I heard where like, I think,
 and again, this was like, it's funny when you think of wealth, but like his dad, I'm like,
 I don't know, like a hundred dominoes or something. But I just remember they used to take a
 helicopter to lunch. And I'm like, what? And I remember him bragging about the car.
 His dad bought him like 120,000 like car. He'd park in front of the country club,
 which obviously I would never even be able to get into the country club. And I remember
 flipping. And I was like, I'm better than that kid. Like I'm smarter than him. I work harder.
 Like, I'm going to fuck him up. And it turned into like this competitive, like,
 I will prove to you that like you, what was handed to you, I will get myself.
 Um, and it was like some kind of weird drive behind that. But so when I see people like
 that where it's just like, you're glorifying the wrong thing. We're like, if you think about,
 there's this great talk that Steve Jobs gave when he came back to Apple and he's talking about
 Apple spends all his money on marketing. You would never know it. It sucks. All your
 marketing stocks. And he's like, who are the best? What is the best example of marketing?
 And he talked about Nike and he's like, what does Nike do? He doesn't even talk about like,
 the shoe is has a bunch of six bubbles or whatever. They, they glorify great athletes.
 They glorify great achievement. And so that's why he did the crazy ones at.
 And so I think that it's like, to some degree, what I'm trying to do is like,
 the reason I make these clips on the anti-business billionaires, the reason I
 just spend so much time talking about these people and the craftsmanship and talk about
 this guy that is literally a craftsmanship with his chicken fingers is because to some degree,
 I like, I want to celebrate these people saying, hey, I'm going to dedicate my life
 to building the best possible product I can and to make somebody else's life better.
 And I'll talk all day long about that. And not about the fact that, you know,
 I'm building a yacht or I'm doing all this other stuff. Like you could have all these
 things, but like, what are you actually proud of? You're not proud of your consumption.
 Well, you probably, anybody can go to the store by that. Not everybody can build a truly great
 product. Why are the people that are doing it that way so much better at marketing than like,
 if you read a marketing book and, you know, tried to go market your product or had some
 marketing person at your company in charge of how the world hears about you. I'm thinking
 about the Red Bull founder, Estee Lauder, like this seems to Steve Jobs, of course,
 this shows up over and over again that not only is the ability to create an incredible product,
 but God, I love that line of mediocrity is invisible until passion shows up to
 exposes to expose it. So I won't forget that one, but the same thing seems to happen.
 So that's the product side. The same thing seems to happen from all these same people on the
 marketing side. What is the flame there that's behind that? Like why, what have you learned
 about that side of business studying all these people where they're not only responsible for
 the product, but also for how the world engages with it. And here's about it.
 Again, I would go back to those three, Evantianard, James Dyson, and Steve Jobs,
 I think they have all these lessons in that. Evantianard calls it nonfiction marketing.
 He's like, if you have a shit product, like you have to like dress it up, you have to put
 you have to have a mascot, you have to hire these expensive advertising companies,
 you know, you have to make up all the stuff. It's all fiction. But if you just, in his
 thing, he didn't even want to be a billionaire. He just like, hey, I'm going to, again, he built
 the product for himself. He was a mountaineer. He was, he spent all his time outdoors. He
 fishes, he mountain, he skis, he climbs mountains. He does all these super risky sports.
 All the gear I'm using sucks. I'm going to make the gear that I use. And guess what,
 if I make the best gear, then everybody's like, where did you get that? Oh, that's good too.
 And it takes best friend. Exactly. And that'll compound again, if you don't sell after
 five years or four years or do anything that puts in jeopardy the durability of your company.
 And so I think about James Dyson is this great line in our, like paraphrase,
 but how he wants to spend his time, he wants to invent. He wants to be as close to the possible
 to the design of the product, the manufacturing of the product. He will be on the line of the
 product, even in the seventies, right? But what he realized is like, after he's done making
 the product, he's the one that went around the world and sold the product because he's like,
 the creator is the only person that can explain what went into the process of the thinking
 behind it. And then with his full heart, he's something like that, with the full heart
 and complete belief in what he's saying, foisted upon other people at a high price.
 Because he knows, hey, yeah, this, you can go and buy a vacuum cleaner for 40 bucks or 600.
 Guess what, my house, I have a Dyson. It's the best vacuum cleaner. It just is.
 And I'm asking you to pay 10 X for where you can get, you know, anywhere else. Why? And I
 can tell you what went into it, the blood, sweat and tears. I kind of reject this like
 purely rational. Like the way people like, they, they try to analyze business in a rational way,
 which is weird to me because humans are nothing but irrational. And they give money for reasons
 they can't describe. And some of this, like, why would somebody pay? You know,
 I love this, this thing that, uh, you see with like ends of our, you guys did a great post
 about this when you did a Ferrari episode and it showed like the racetrack, the test track.
 And they're like, there's a test track. And then literally, ends of our house,
 he built the racetrack around his house, right? And so it's like, why do people come from all
 over the world to meet this guy, right? And to buy a car that, you know, is 100 times,
 10 times, 20, 30 times more expensive than just another car that could go fast.
 There's a story behind it. Um, and I think that's where like you see the people that love
 the product so much, they put so much of their life's energy into it, that then they can
 explain very clearly why it's valuable. The reason I'm not trying to be like obnoxious
 when I ask people to listen to the podcast and they don't, I tell them to take out their phone.
 I heard this great thing and this is another idea I got from Paul Graham. We said in the
 early days of Stripe, they called the Collison installation where they're like, oh, the other
 YC company's like, I love to use Stripe. And they'd be like, Oh, great. Give me your laptop.
 And they would install it right then. And so I saw that idea. Great idea. I'm going to do
 this center installation. And so I've done this over and over. I don't even know,
 I've probably installed it. I don't know. Not joking. Like 500 times, like, oh,
 this is going to be the best day you've ever had. You're going to look back on this day,
 unbelievable what this podcast is going to do for your career here. Follow right there.
 Like I think James Cameron episodes, the best episode ever done. Maybe the Red Bull episode,
 maybe the chicken finger episode, but like, I can tell you that with a straight face and not
 feel shameful or shameless or whatever the term is there about doing that because I believe in it.
 It took a lot of fucking work to make that. And I know the lessons are good because
 that guy told you they're good. What is it about the Red Bull story?
 It's so unique. It's so different. It's one of my favorites that you've ever done.
 So this is another. Again, like, it's like, you, you know me well. I'm getting hot.
 So you know me well enough. It's just like, I'm not like somebody could offer me like
 come run my company or like pay me more money. Like there's just no way I would do that.
 Like I'm not doing it. There's other ulterior motives for it. And one,
 like, if you're really smart, you can find a way to build a good business. It's almost anything.
 It's not what you do. It's how you do it. With Deetris matches, it's like
 his whole thing. One, the story is crazy because at the time I did that episode,
 there's no biographies in English. So like this is also what drives me insane
 and everything you should be thinking about differentiation. The reason I started a solo
 podcast, right, on history podcast in 2016 is because in 2016, I thought there was way too
 many. I can go interview entrepreneurs. Everybody's already doing that, right? And there's obviously
 something I didn't understand. It's always room for great, right? But I didn't, I have this
 natural inclination of having my entire life to like go in the other direction that other
 people are doing. So I knew it was differentiated. And what I, what I love about the episodes I
 love the most is like there's not even a book about it. You have to like make the content for
 the episode. So I had to translate or a friend of mine translated that biography from German.
 So first of all, I was like, oh, good. Like how many people have done an episode on this guy
 based on this book? Well, if you haven't spoke German, none, right? So, and then you, you
 realize this story is just like, you know, he was working for a bunch of CPG companies,
 traveling to Asia. He's jetlogged all time. He, he winds up finding the red bull, but it's
 in a different language. It's like 15 cents or whatever the case is. He's like, oh, this,
 this works. And there's really no like energy drink category. So he helps create the category
 and then masters a category. And then realizes you have a lot of like, you really need to raise
 the price. And then even the way he looked at things where he's like, oh, we're a marketing
 conglomerate. So we're going to outsource everything else but marketing. It's like everybody's
 talking about content to commerce and all this other stuff today. It's like, this is not,
 nothing is new. You just haven't ran enough history. Like you want to look at the best
 content to commerce right there. And then what does he do? He optimizes for, he did not want
 to have a board directors. He did not want to be in the public stock market. He didn't
 want to be answerable to anybody. The guy, I mean, the guy wasn't married. Like you
 just look at it. People will give you hints about what's important to them. Just look
 right between the lines. And you clearly see he doesn't like people telling you what to do.
 He has a ton of fun. He's also crazy. He likes to like, even well, to his 70s. He was like,
 taking risky sports, mountain biking. He had, he was like flying his own planes,
 racing his own cars. He was like the Red Bull. Like the brand of Red Bull was him.
 And then you get to the point where him and his partner, they each own 49% of the company,
 they fit $500,000 in each. Then they had a small bank loan and every single thing from the
 growth from there was out of profits. How many people, essentially can bootstrap?
 If somebody gave, if me and you have a business right now, right, you're going to put in half
 a million, I'll put in half a million, we're going to get a small bank loan.
 You know, hard, the unlikely outcome that you and I build a business that's worth
 40 or 50 or $60 billion? You know, hard that is. How the hell did he do that?
 There's a great line by Charlie Munger. He says, one of my favorite ways, one of my
 favorite ways to knowledge is finding an extreme example and asking what the hell
 happened here. You know, and in your, like in my case, it's like people.
 It's like, what? There's a guy, there's some Austrian guy that owns Red Bull that is turning
 down his, he turned on multiple offers where he would have made 20 billion for his 49%.
 He's paying himself 500 to 800 million a year. He's so private that he buys the magazine that's
 trying to write a story about him. Like there's a guy that is trying to write an unauthorized
 biography of him, goes to his mom's house, Ditress finds the guy and says, if you,
 the only my mom alone, I'm going to, I'm going to pay a Russian guy to break your
 knees, your kneecaps. It's like, what is happening here? Who is this person?
 And I think that's really important because all it does is like completely pops off the
 top of your head about what is possible in life. The reason I'm obsessed with these
 main acts on emissions, these super driven people, these, the opposite of casual people is
 because it's like, they stretch what I believe is possible. Let me give you a perfect example.
 There is, um, I, there's this reoccurring theme on the podcast, it's in all these
 biographies. And I, the shorthand I have for this is how bad do you want it?
 And I just came across an example of this was Ken Griffin. The reason I did the Ken Griffin
 episode, even though there's not a biography on him, I think there's one that's like crappy
 and it's like two stars in Amazon. So, you know, there's people writing, it's probably like
 chat GPT wrote it or something. Or the old version of chat GPT, the new version actually,
 the deep research can write the deep research. Hey, I use deep research every day. It's really
 good. He talks about when he was 33 years old, Enron blows up. John Arnold tells the story on
 Twitter and it goes viral on Twitter. And that's how I found it. That's what sparked me because
 I keep hearing about Ken. And I was like, once I read that, I was like, this is a founders guy,
 have to do it. And Enron blows up. Spectacular in 2001. The day it blows up, uh, Ken Charters,
 uh, Gulfstream Jet sends like 16 people down to Houston. Interviews every single person
 in the Enron energy, like the commodity business, everyone finds out how they made money,
 what their competitors were, what worked, what didn't work. Right. Then he finds the head
 trainer, which is John Arnold and John Arnold's like, uh, Ken's assistant calls. He's like,
 Hey, uh, Ken wants to talk to you. We should talk to him. It's like, listen, I'm not open for
 a job right now. I'm trying to close the books, but I respect what Ken has built. So, I will
 talk to him. Okay. I'm headed to Aspen for an event right now. When I'm back in Houston,
 tell Ken I will take his phone call hangs up, assistant calls back a few minutes later,
 Ken is willing to fly to where you are. If he flies to Aspen today, will you meet with them?
 He said, yeah, how bad do you want? And Ken's point that he makes, that's, I don't think
 that's in the, the, the Twitter post, but he tells that same story in the conversation
 with you. And he goes, I hired all the best people at Enron. And since then, we've made
 about $30 billion trading commodities. How bad do you want it? Most people are like, oh,
 I'll wait till next week. I'll catch you a couple of days. He's like, I'm coming today.
 33 years old. You always see the true interest is revealed early. He was doing stuff like that.
 When, when long-term capital management blew up in '98, he was 30 years old.
 He went and visited those guys. What, what do you want to know? You guys didn't lose control
 of your business until over 90% of your equity. How the hell did you keep it after like 30%,
 40%, 50%. How is that possible? And then what happened? That was in 1998. He was 30. In 2008,
 when he was 40, he lost 50% of his equity. And he says, what I learned from those conversations,
 I used 10 years later to keep Citadel in business.
 I asked sort of the marketing version of this question, like the nonfiction marketing,
 like if you believe so deeply in the thing, it actually becomes easier to, to sell the $600
 vacuum versus the $40 one. What about on the talent side? I know you've learned a lot from
 Brad Jacobs and other people about the power of hiring the very best people.
 Everybody says that. Like of course, you should have the best people, but they don't do it.
 So like, why don't they do it? What do found true founders in your, in your sense of the word,
 do differently in the same question I asked about marketing, but for talent.
 Yeah, there's a great line. I did this clip in this video called overpay for talent because
 you can't really overpay for talent. And Brad Jacobs, in his book, you know, he talks
 about that over and over again, we, me and you went to his house and he talked about,
 he would told us like numbers he was paying for talent. Like, you know, it would shock you,
 Mr. Beast's video editors, like this 22 year old, the main kid 22 or 24 year old kid. Like,
 if you know what he paid him, like, you see this over and over again. Why? Because the
 example in the video is like, well, you know, did Apple really need next? No, they need a
 Steve Jobs. So they paid 500, they paid half a billion dollars to rehire the guy they
 shouldn't that they needed. And he produced, you know, whatever return on that money. Like,
 they got a deal on getting him back. The reason I think people don't do it is one, I don't think
 everything we describe. And I do, I think there's like a limit to like the actual application.
 I guess these ideas, you can scale down and scale up. But like,
 there's just not that many talented people in every field. And they're really hard to find.
 They take a long term, long time to usually convince. They're usually really, really
 expensive. And in many cases, they're working for themselves. So like, they're not like,
 there's not only going to abundance of people, but this just happened with me and you talked
 about this. Your new editor in chief just wrote that Neil made a piece. And how did you find
 him? You found he wrote the best Palmer Lucky and Palmer Lucky's the best profile period.
 Yeah. And the best and Palmer Lucky's like, he's got a lot of coverage. He does great
 interviews and everything is wildly entertaining. And yet this guy wrote the best piece on him.
 Jeremy. So it's very simple. Jeremy Stern. Thank you. It's very simple. It's like, oh,
 this is what Munger told our mutual friend, Brent. He's like, how do you find CEOs? I just
 find somebody did a great job at being a CEO and said, do that. But for me. And then Brent's
 like, what about hiring for potential? And Munger's like, I don't do that. I don't do that. I just
 find the great guy and come to come over here. So you just did this. You're like, hey,
 that guy's really good. What's the chance that he's only able to write one good?
 Possible. Like you don't get that good without there's a skill there. You know? And so I have
 gone through. I realized I wasn't even taking my own advice because I would use like all these
 people when you just like inside baseball this, like when you see all these podcasts that have
 all these clips, they're outsourced. Yeah, they're like, they're like all the pitches,
 like it's so cheap. And I even use some that my friends recommended and I'm like,
 these are terrible. And I found a guy and we met him together. And he is really young and really
 gifted. His name is Maxim. He is my opinion, one of the best short-form editors in the world.
 Shout out Blake Robbins for connecting us. It took me a while, a few months to do this,
 only works because he's obsessed with the podcast. And he was like in the audience and he's
 predisposed and he's already listening to it anyways. And I was like, do that for me.
 And then he tells me the price. And the price is like six times. Six X, what other people pay.
 And I said, done. Where do I send the wire? Because I didn't, and then what happens?
 The clips are coming out. And the person that doing your video right now, all these people
 we meet, they're like, these are the best podcast clips. And then we, I mean, you've talked like,
 what's the management? There is no management. Like I bought your taste. It's like, I already
 know you're great because I watch your videos and like, this is incredible. It's like hiring
 Tarantino and be like, I have some feedback for you. No, you should shut up. That's Tarantino.
 This happens to me where like I get emails and the subject line, feedback on the podcast.
 Don't even read it right in the garbage. You link me to a podcast that you have made
 that is even in the world, like even in the same category. And then I will listen.
 But again, you think I'm making it for you. I'm making it for me. The act of publishing it
 makes it an act of service, but I made it for me first. So I can't do what you want me to do
 because I'm not making it for you. I'm making it for me. I have to be satisfied first.
 And so the answer to your question is like, one, even me who every single episode is like,
 overpay for talent, find the best people, never ever forget the dynamic range of humans.
 You know, Steve Jobs says, you know, the best person is not 100 times better.
 Not twice as good. There are 100 times and 1000 times better, which is obviously true.
 Think about the best investors. Like, you know, that profile you did on Neil made a,
 like, I don't know, how many other investors in the world are better than him.
 It's not 10,000. Whatever the number is, it's a small number, especially if you,
 you say the same age group. Now, what five, two, one, I don't know. But that's the,
 and that's so hard to actually find the person. In this case, it came because
 somebody else that's really good at spotting talent told me and you about this guy.
 And maybe I probably wouldn't have found him if it wasn't for that.
 So these things take a lot of time. And then what I would say is just like,
 if you're not, you have to actually ask yourself. And I think having a, I have a basic intolerance
 for casualness, for mediocrity, for not being completely obsessed with what you're doing.
 And so that weeds out most of humanity anyways. And then what I do is like,
 I have this great maximum where it's like, you should limit, you should limit the amount of
 details and then make every detail perfect. And so for me, it's like, I don't need
 much. I don't need anybody to edit. I don't need anybody to make it. The only thing I can't do is
 I'll never be a video editor like him. So I can't, it's not like I have to go out and hire.
 I don't want to put myself in a position where my business only works if I find like the 15
 best people in the world. That's not the game I'm playing. I love the answers on product,
 on marketing, and on talent. Maybe the last one is on capital. Is there anything that you've
 seen the people that you've studied do different or special, especially well,
 when it comes to attracting the right sources and partnerships with on the capital side,
 specifically, raising money, doing clever deals, clever financing. Is there any dimension there
 that's worth exploring? These weren't getting trouble too. I literally have no friends that
 aren't entrepreneurs, but it just can't talk to anybody. It's not an entrepreneur.
 What I always tell them, they're like, yeah, I started this company and it's like software
 company. And they're like, all right, I got to go and raise a bunch of money. I was like,
 you should take a look at like what Larry Ellison did. Steve Jobs and Bill Gates.
 You listen to the podcast, right? You told me you listen to those episodes. What did they do?
 They raised money? No, they sold the product. They started selling the product before the
 product was made. Maybe you should go out and see if you can get other ways to do this.
 It's shocking to me how the default is, I must go out and convince other people that are not
 my customers to give me money. Sometimes you have to. I'm not anti-raising money.
 I'm anti-wastefulness. The point that Todd Graves makes in the episode is,
 like, listen, a lot of these PE guys come in and they try to buy you out and everything else is
 like, why do you think they want your equity? Because it's very valuable. So doesn't mean you
 can't change, you know, exchange money for equity. Sometimes you have to do it. But you
 should be very, very careful. And he came up with like, think about this. This is how bad
 do you want it? And I'm doing the Michael Dell episode. I'm almost positive. Michael Dell,
 his initial soda capital for Dell, was $1,000. I have to double check because I've already
 listened to the book three times. I've read it. I'm going through it again. So I could
 make my memory. And I'm pretty sure when he went public, I'm like 70% of Dell. It's not my
 opinion. I would just go, how does Larry Ellison know so much of Oracle? Like, where did the
 funding come from Microsoft? What about Apple? Like, what did they do? Like, they obviously
 raise money. They go public to do all this other stuff. Just like, think about that.
 And do you have to do that? This is a really important decision. You should not be casual
 about what you're doing. So, Todd Graves, chicken finger, right? How many people?
 You're going to criticize this guy for being put on this earth by God to make the world's
 best chicken fingers. And I love them. Fried chicken outside of like, I like fried chicken.
 I like it. I don't know what to tell you. I try not to eat it because I get fat immediately,
 but I like fried chicken. I've eaten a lot of fried chicken. I like his fried chicken.
 I think it's the best. So, what did he do? He's like, listen, I went to a bank. He goes,
 it was the idea for raising Keynes was a paper in business school at LSU.
 And he got the worst grade in class, which is funny because FedEx, Fred Smith,
 got his bad grade. Phil Knight, Nike, bad grade. Maybe we shouldn't have professors
 judging business plans. Maybe this is kind of stupid, right? So, Todd Graves goes, I bought,
 he goes to office depot, buys a briefcase. You know, like the little shitty one with like the
 zero, zero, zero. Like, I put the brief, so I buy a $99 suit. I buy a briefcase. I
 put the business school paper that I got a bad grade on in the briefcase. I go down the bank
 and they're like, dude, you're not in a position to loan you money. And one of the reasons was
 you have no experience. They sell him. You should work in the industry for 10 years,
 even though he'd already worked through it in college. But you want to just make chicken
 fingers where your industry is going in the opposite direction. And this is where I got
 really pissed off in the episode. I was induced into a state of rage. They said,
 Todd, obviously this is not going to work out because look what McDonald's is doing. They're
 going after a variety. There's salads. There's all these other stuff on the menu. There's milkshakes.
 You just have chicken fingers. Like, what is wrong with you? And my point was like,
 that shame on that person at the bank, because again, nothing we're doing is new.
 Go back to 1948, look up this guy named Harry Snyder, who founded this company called In-N-Out.
 All Todd Graves did, if you look at what he did, he's like, oh, I'll just do In-N-Out
 but for chicken fingers. It's the exact same story, except he started earlier and is now,
 I think when Harry Snyder passed away, he only had 17 restaurants. And Todd Stone
 chargers company's got 800 and something. And so that part really frustrated me because
 it's like, there's already a historical equivalent of this succeeding beyond your
 wallet streams. In-N-Out probably wasn't an LSU. The guy didn't know. Maybe there was
 no internet back then. Whatever the case is, I'm not being overly harsh on this.
 So then what's Todd left to do? You're not going to loan me any money. What do I do?
 I guess I'll just give up. Most people just stop right there. I go work for 10 years.
 These guys are right. I'm some young, stupid college kid. They're in fancy suits and a nice
 office. Like, they know what they're talking about. History, clear reasoning is that in many
 cases, it's not the case. So then what do you do? He's like, okay, these oil companies hire
 boil makers. And what happens is, if a refinery goes down, every day that thing is down,
 that's very expensive to them. So, boiler makers come through and they either update the equipment
 or fix the equipment. And so if you're willing to work 95-hour weeks in grotesque environments,
 in physical labor, you can make so much money working 100 hours a week for like five weeks at
 a time. So he makes a ton of money. He saves up tens of thousands of dollars doing that.
 Then one of the boiler makers named Wild Bill, who's also one of his investors,
 which I love, he got the money from saving money from boiler making. Then they tell him,
 hey, you can go up and do commercial fishing in Alaska. At the time Todd is doing this,
 I'm much younger watching Deadliest Catch. He was on the show as being filmed when he's
 doing this. And so yeah, you may fall overboard and die, but if you don't, you're going to make
 50 grand in two months as a 20-year-old kid. And he lived in a tent. He lived in a tent.
 He ate nothing but ramen noodles. He risked his life on the boat. He went to the boiler maker.
 Then he comes back. The boiler maker is giving him a little bit of money. Like you keep talking
 about chicken fingers. You're fucking crazy. I will give you a little bit of money. Then he
 had a bookie. And guess what? My bookie has a lot of cash. His, he has a cash business.
 This guy does not have a bank account. So then he invested. And that's how he got the money
 to do his first store. And then from there, he's like, okay, well, how do I do store two,
 store three, store four? The first 28 stores after this was finance in a very unique way,
 which he says, this worked out for me. Do not do what I'm about to tell you to do.
 They're all geographically concentrated in Louisiana, right? And so he would go and he said,
 he called them angel investors. They're not angel investors. So he goes,
 so I have two chicken fingers stores. I'm going to open the third. I don't have any money,
 right? Banks, I still don't give me money, right? But these things are cash flowing right away.
 So I go to you. I go, dude, give me 200 grand. I'll give you one page contract,
 personally liable, not the company, personally liable. And I will pay again to a 15% return
 on this 200 grand. And you say, okay, you don't, you give me the 200 grand. I put the 200 grand
 in the bank. The bank now will lend me that like, oh, you have $200,000 equity. I'll end you
 800 grand on top of that million, whatever the number is on top of that. And I start the store.
 And what happens? Well, day one, there's going to be some people buying chicken. So cash flow
 happens right away. I pay my rent 30 days later. I pay payroll two days, two weeks later. And
 I pay all my supplies net, you know, net 30 or net 60. And so it works as long as people
 come in to start buying chicken fingers. And so he's like, I was rolling. I was
 balling out of control. He gets the all the way up to 28 stores doing this.
 Leverage to the, is it? Yeah, exactly. Leverage to the hilts.
 And then Hurricane Katrina comes to and goes, whoop, there goes all of your restaurants.
 And so then he's like, oh my God, I'm going to lose everything. And then what happens?
 He turns the pandemic. He does this. And this is what great entrepreneurs and investors do.
 They took, they find opportunity and catastrophe. Right. And so he's like, listen, guys,
 we have to open up. One, you guys want to paycheck, right?
 Two, every single other restaurant in Louisiana is closed. So people need to eat.
 Three, if we don't, I'm done. There's nothing like, I need to make money. He winds up being
 the first restaurant to open after Hurricane Katrina. He had like a, he had like 90 days,
 something like 16 to 90 days to himself. So what happens? You live in Louisiana.
 Maybe you never tried raising gains. Guess what? Now, now you try it now. Oh, this is really good.
 And now you're a fan and you tell other people and it keeps compounding.
 Same thing with the pandemic. What happened? All the restaurants are closed.
 But the government said, bread, food is essential, right? And essential business,
 but it has to be in the drive-through. You went from doing something like,
 I don't know, let's say two billion or let's say a billion dollars a year in 2020 to like
 five. And like, 2024. Yeah. So taking, taking, you know, something is terrible and turning
 it into an actual opportunity. So that's like pretty creative way to finance something.
 And his whole point is, it's like, yeah, or you could go, how bad do you want it?
 How bad do you want it? And just think through what you're doing, because his whole point,
 where he saw a bunch of other people, they raised money and we know people that this
 has happened to, they don't have control. And his, his thing was he was not optimizing for
 money. He was, if it's your dream, the first thing, the most important thing is survival.
 It's to make sure that they can't take your company away from you. Steve Jobs.
 Again, this people, founders talked about this all now. Like this is something new.
 Steve Jobs said in like the 80s, victory in our industry is spelled survival.
 You go back and talk about like people that like, he was unbelievable. He was,
 he said his line, he said something like, you pay attention to the nickels because the
 nickels turned into quarters. And he says when, and when he's like, at the beginning of
 Apple, we paid attention to all of our costs. We watched what we were doing. We bought
 intelligently. He would call up his suppliers and haggle the hell out of them. And, you know,
 obviously he's probably the best that has ever lived. And then when he started next,
 he's like, oh, I didn't do anymore. Because I'm rich and I don't need to and I have
 rust perot writing fat checks and I'm on. I'm famous and he stopped doing it.
 He's like, we got to get back to the basics. We have to be very creative and pay attention to
 this. We started our conversation talking about focus. To conclude it, can you just define,
 after all this study, what the word founder means to you?
 That's a good question. I don't know if I ever thought about it. The way,
 so my definition for entrepreneurs has always been like, somebody has ideas and does them.
 And I think when the reason I'm interested, we have this thing called like the shorthand
 called like founder mentality. And there's the reason I profile not only just like founders,
 but investors and athletes and filmmakers and people like Napoleon and Churchill
 is because what they did is like they saw something missing in the world. It could be
 leadership and like to think about Winston Churchill post World War II or during World War II.
 It could be, you know, a nonprofit. It could be a product. It could be a company. It could be
 a service. And they're like, this thing should exist. And like, I'm going to make it
 come to life. And the way I'm going to do this, like I'm going to direct my energy on creating
 this thing from nothing and making it real. And I still think like, again, you know this,
 because like you have small kids and especially when they're really small,
 they're, they have a different kind of intelligence where everything to them was a
 wonder. And so they're constantly like, why is that? Why is that my son's in this age right
 now? Just why? Why? Why? Why? Why? And sometimes it can get frustrating, but it's also like kind
 of brilliant. It's like on the Midwest meme, it's like all the way to the left, but like really
 actually brilliant. And I don't think I ever get over the fact that you can have an idea that
 you don't even know where it comes from. Maybe it comes from your subconscious,
 maybe it comes from a dream, maybe it comes from God, whatever you call it. And that idea
 just starts with an idea. It's like, oh, and then that goes from your mind into real life.
 And the version of this is like, it's a little disorienting to this day where I just sat in
 a room by myself reading. And then I spoke into a microphone, not knowing what was going to
 happen. And like, that made something real, that act of creation. And it's the thing I'm
 most proud of the fact that like, I was talking to a friend of mine, we went on a walk right
 before I flew up here to meet you. And I was like, I think the thing I'm most proud of in my
 life is like, I grinded for five and a half years with like no physical like progress.
 And I didn't give up. And like, I don't know if I do that today. I don't know if I would
 do that today. And I look back, I'm like, you would make a lot of stupid decisions
 along this way. But like, that is a really good decision that you just something told you,
 you can't explain. You didn't couldn't predict that like, just keep going. Like you will
 figure it out. You have the self-belief. Keep going. It's a wonderful closing thought.
 So cool to think about everything you've done the last, I guess eight years now, nine years
 now. I love how you close your thing by saying, you know, 400 books down 1000 to go. There's
 always 1000 to go. Wonderful closing sentiment. Thanks for doing this with me.
 If you enjoyed this episode, visit Join Colossus.com where you'll find every episode of this
 podcast complete with hand edited transcripts. You can also subscribe to Colossus review,
 our quarterly print digital and private audio publication featuring in depth profiles of
 the founders, investors, and companies that we admire most. Learn more at joinclossis.com/subscribe.
 [Music]
 [BLANK_AUDIO]
