--- METADATA START ---
Show: A Father’s Cal… - Invest Like the Best with Patrick O'Shaughnessy
Episode: Dinakar Singh
Host: Patrick O'Shaughnessy 
Guests: Dinakar Singh
Source URL: https://podcasts.apple.com/us/podcast/dinakar-singh-a-fathers-call-to-action/id1154105909?i=1000712943297
--- METADATA END ---

1
Something I speak about frequently on Invest the Best is the idea of life's work.
2
A more fun way to think about it is that I'm looking for maniacs on a mission.
3
This is the basis for our investment firm Positive Sum, and it's the reason why I'm so enthusiastic about our presenting sponsor, RAMP.
4
Not only are the founders, Kareem and Eric, life's work-level founders, certainly maniacs on a mission, they have created a product that is effectively an unlock for founders and finance team to do more of their life's work by streamlining financial operations, saving everyone their most precious resource, time.
5
RAMP has built a command and control system for corporate cards and expense management.
6
You can issue cards, manage approvals, make vendor payments of all kinds, and even automate closing your books all in one place.
7
Speaking from my own experience using RAMP for my business, the product is wildly intuitive, simplistic, and makes life so much easier that you'll feel bad for any company who hasn't yet made the switch.
8
The RAMP team is relentless, and the product continues to evolve to save you time that you would never have dreamed of getting back.
9
To me, there is nothing more interesting than technologies that reduce friction for other entrepreneurs to be able to build the thing that they want to.
10
So much attention has gone to cloud computing, APIs, and other ways of making life easy for founders.
11
What RAMP has done and is doing is build yet another set of tools in this category.
12
To get started, go to ramp.com.
13
Cards issued by Celtic Bank and Sutton Bank, member FDIC.
14
Terms and conditions apply.
15
Ridgeline gets me so excited because every investment professional knows the core challenge that they solve.
16
You love the core work of investing, but operational complexities eat up valuable time and energy.
17
That's where Ridgeline comes in.
18
Ridgeline is an all-in-one operating system designed specifically for investment managers, and their momentum has been incredible.
19
With about $350 billion now committed to the platform and a 60% increase in customers since just October, firms are flocking to Ridgeline for a good reason.
20
They've been leading the investment management tech industry in AI for over a year with 100% of their users opting into their AI capabilities, putting them light years ahead of other vendors thanks to their single source of data.
21
And they recently released the industry's first AI agents, digital coworkers that can operate independently.
22
Their customers are already using this highly innovative technology and calling it mind-blowing.
23
You don't have to put up with the juggling multiple legacy systems and spending endless quarter ends compiling reports.
24
Ridgeline has created a comprehensive cloud platform that handles everything in real time, from trading and portfolio management to compliance and client reporting.
25
It's worth reaching out to Ridgeline to see what the experience can be with a single platform.
26
Visit ridgelineapps.com to schedule a demo.
27
As an investor, staying ahead of the game means having the right tools, and I want to share one that's become indispensable in my team's own research, AlphaSense.
28
It's the market intelligence platform trusted by 75% of the world's top hedge funds and 85% of the SP 100 to make smarter, faster investment decisions.
29
What sets AlphaSense apart is not just its AI-driven access to over 400 million premium sources company filings, broker research, news, and trade journals, but also its unmatched private market insights.
30
With the recent acquisition of Tegas, AlphaSense now holds the world's premier library of over 150,000 proprietary expert transcripts from 24,000 public and private companies.
31
Here's the kicker: 75% of all private market expert transcripts are on AlphaSense, and 50% of VC firms on the Midas list conduct their expert calls through the platform.
32
That's the insight that helps you uncover opportunities, navigate complexity, and make high-conviction decisions with speed and confidence.
33
Ready to see what they can do for your investment research?
34
Visit alphasense.com/slash invest to get started.
35
Trust me, it's a tool you won't want to work without.
36
Hello and welcome, everyone.
37
I'm Patrick O'Shaughnessy, and this is Invest the Best.
38
This show is an open-ended exploration of markets, ideas, stories, and strategies that will help you better invest both your time and your money.
39
If you enjoy these conversations and want to go deeper, check out Colossus Review, our quarterly publication with in-depth profiles of the people shaping business and investing.
40
You can find Colossus Review along with all of our podcasts at joincolossus.com.
41
Patrick O'Shaughnessy is the CEO of Positive Sum.
42
All opinions expressed by Patrick and podcast guests are solely their own opinions and do not reflect the opinion of Positive Sum.
43
This podcast is for informational purposes only and should not be relied upon as a basis for investment decisions.
44
Clients of Positive Sum may maintain positions in the securities discussed in this podcast.
45
To learn more, visit psum.vc.
46
My guest today is Dinekar Singh.
47
Dinnikar is the founder and CEO of Axon, the family office successor to TPG Axon, which was a successful global longshored hedge fund.
48
We wanted to share his story on Father's Day to honor the person and the dad that Dinikar is.
49
He shares one of the most extraordinary stories at the intersection of finance and medicine that I've ever encountered.
50
This conversation explores the highest stakes investment themes, timing, concentrated conviction, exceptional team building, and deploying resources towards outcomes that matter most.
51
I want to let him tell the story of the remarkable journey that he's been on to cure a disease called SMA that so deeply affected his family.
52
Please enjoy my conversation with Dinikar Singh.
53
So, Dinekar, I'm so excited to tell your entire story.
54
It's one of the most unique, moving, and incredible stories I've encountered in investing, and I guess in life more generally.
55
I was thinking about how to ask about it to kick us off.
56
And maybe the appropriate ways just to ask you why you named your firm TPG Axon.
57
The axon is the nerve that connects your brain to your muscle, and it happens to be the core part of what degenerates in spinal mustard atrophy, which is the disease my daughter is diagnosed with.
58
And so, from my perspective, an important factor in starting the firm and leaving Goldman at that time was that on one end, while I loved investing, I also just resolved that there was a glimmer of hope to save my daughter and other kids who had her condition, but that glimmer of hope was not going to last very long, and time was not our friend.
59
And so, I needed to go as quickly as possible to drive success as quickly as possible, obviously, for its own sake, but more importantly, honestly, so that I could go and throw a variable fortune into the research we needed to do to make sure we did it as fast as possible in time to save her.
60
Because she was diagnosed in 2001.
61
I had just come back from Hong Kong literally a month or two months before.
62
I had become global head of the group while there.
63
I was in Hong Kong for four years, setting up the Asian business and becoming global head of that time.
64
Came back, we were on top of the world.
65
Art group was extraordinarily profitable even during 12 years of the firm.
66
Came back, and a month later, 9-11 happened.
67
And a month later, our daughter was diagnosed with SMA, spinal mustoatrophy.
68
And she was a year and a half at that time.
69
We'd been shifting back and forth to Hong Kong and New York.
70
And it's your first child.
71
It's ironic because you don't know what is normal in terms of development.
72
And so we thought she was developing normally.
73
But we were at a party, and one of our friends' mother was a very good pediatrician and said, Look, you want to go and have her checked out because just go have her checked out.
74
And that started the saga of getting test after test after test.
75
And eventually, Riterie, a month after 9-11, I was sitting in my office watching the smoldering ruin of the World Trade Center, which was right in front of my window, and getting the call from the doctor basically saying that she has SMA.
76
For a bunch of reasons, it was a shock.
77
Well,, technically, he called my wife 30 seconds.
78
Sorry, she has SMA, got to go click.
79
And she called me in tears.
80
We called him back, and it was maybe 60 seconds this time.
81
But at that time, no one knew much about this disease.
82
The gene for it was just discovered a few years before.
83
And until then, people thought it was just a variant of muscular dystrophy or some other muscle disease.
84
So, in SMA, you're missing the key gene that makes a key protein.
85
That protein is a fertilizer for muscles and nerves.
86
And,, fertilizer with plants, without it, they wither and die.
87
All of us have a backup gene because it's such a critical protein.
88
Your body has some redundancy.
89
Some people have one, some people have two or three.
90
That backup gene doesn't work very well.
91
It makes a protein that falls apart because it's got a defect in it, but it has some.
92
And so, depending on how many backup genes you have and how little or more than a little protein you have, you might die within a few weeks, or you might die within 10-15 years.
93
Our daughter was in the middle, and so the diagnosis at the time is that she'd probably live to be in her mid teens or so, but getting weaker and suffering along the way.
94
So, my parents had been scientists, as it happened, probably a source of my strange thinking in life.
95
But after school in India, I'd go hang out their lab and do mass dissections when I was six years old.
96
It's a typical after school activity.
97
But,, I grew up in the science world and so had enough scientific knowledge to be dangerous.
98
And so, as you stared at this,, it seems super intriguing to me.
99, in the first few months, it was just dodestation.
100
When you're told there's no treatment, there's no cure, it's just a question of when and with how much pain, you're mentally clogged.
101
We first started just giving some money to some groups, and as I started digging into the research, it became clear that, huh, there isn't as much known about this as one would think, given the gene was just found.
102
For example, why did that neurologist diagnose hang up in 60 seconds?
103
Obviously, because he didn't know anything about this.
104
When he went to medical school, there was no spinal gastrocrophy because no one knew that it was a separate disease, let alone one that affected 20,000 kids.
105
So, technically,, at that time, the most common genetic killer of kids, which is a pretty incredible thing when you think about it.
106
Intrigue started setting in.
107
And so, at first, my wife and I started giving money to some causes.
108
There are a few groups that were involved, and so we gave them a bit of money.
109
As we dug in more, we then started talking to scientists, friends, Columbia, et cetera, and got more intrigued that there was a chance there because there's some really good work that had been done.
110
And in your body, if you're missing a gene and it's completely gone, replacing it when it's totally gone missing,, true gene therapy is still really, really hard to do.
111
On the other hand, here, you had this backup gene that was defective, but having a backup factory in place that you could try and crank up and fix to make a bit better is a wholly easier challenge than having to replace something that simply went missing in the first place.
112
And so, that struck me as being pretty interesting.
113
There was some work being done.
114
You could create mice that had SMA, which is also a pretty big, powerful factor.
115
You had an intriguing thing to tackle.
116
You had some tools that were pretty nifty tools in these cell models and mouse models.
117
So, you could test things in them that had to see whether they had an impact or not.
118
And this is taking available in idiot and ready.
119
But for a lot of drugs, one of the biggest problems is what they call the therapeutic window, meaning with almost anything in your body, too much or too little is pretty bad for you.
120
And I joke with people that take water as an example.
121
Water has a very wide therapeutic window, but by the way, if you drink enough of it, you get kidney damage and die.
122
And most other things are much, much narrower.
123
And so there are many drugs that might work, but we just don't know exactly what the precise amount is and where to get it.
124
And as a result, they end up having toxicity problems or undershoot, et cetera.
125
With SMA, the difference between some of these kids with multiple backups versus not, and someone who is a carrier versus having a disease or someone you presumably doesn't have it all, there's such a massive, wide range of this protein in the body that it's pretty clear that you almost can't have too much.
126
There's no real worry about that.
127
And that really was a pretty treating thing from developing a drug as well.
128
And so, again, not to get too much in the weeds, but ran into these things and it really seemed there was at least something to be tried here.
129
As it happened, there was an interesting coincidence, which is that NIH at that time, for the first time ever, the world is very different today, but rare disease was not something people focused on back then.
130
No one cared.
131
There had been one rare disease drug really ever, and companies were focused on big things at that time: statin, BD's drugs, oncology.
132
No one wanted to work and look at rare disease.
133
NIH was also funding all these big diseases, but they came up with a novel program at that time to have the first ever grants awarded for translational research.
134
And so they picked SMA because it's this cool nifty new disease and said, we think this is the best target.
135
We'd to have a small program where we can go and provide some grants to work not just on basic science, but work on actual drug discovery.
136
Again, today, this seems completely obvious.
137
Back then, that was a really novel thing.
138
Unfortunately, there were a bunch of changes.
139
The head of NIH stepped down, and the head of NINDS, the Neurological Institute, stepped down.
140
And so you had acting directors in both places.
141
And I would joke to people that when you have acting directors, that means there is no action on stuff.
142
And so nothing is really happening.
143
So there's pitiful grant money from NIH for this disease, even though other diseases of similar size and a lot less potential probability of success were getting tons of funding.
144
Because,, there is just a latency bias and things.
145
If you think about this, if you're a student in medical school and a disease is well known, you might want to focus on it afterwards.
146
So you're doing more research.
147
If a disease no one's ever heard of until recently, there aren't many people working on it.
148
So there aren't many people who apply for grants.
149
And when you apply for grants, there aren't many people who understand it to know whether it's a good grant or not.
150
And so there's a lot of stuff that just takes a long time for the cycle to work.
151
And as you stared at this and said, look, there's a chance here, but we might be waiting a couple decades or so for this to work.
152
By that time, she's going to be gone.
153
It occurred to me, and I tell people this now: the second worst thing that can happen to a parent is to see their child suffer and die.
154
The single worst thing, though, is to see your child suffer and die, only to find out that you could have done something about it, but it wasn't done in time.
155
And so once we got the idea in our head that there's a glimmer of healthcare, it really almost deranges you, if you will.
156
Because then any second you're spending doing anything that isn't max speed is a wasted moment.
157
And so that led to just, we're going to take a shot at this.
158
I'm not going to go and take a shot only to find out we went slowly.
159
So this has to be max turbo, pull out all the stops, let's go for it.
160
Part of that was money.
161
It struck me that all these things take time.
162
You could fund some scientists, get some basic research, and then go to the next one, the next one, the next one.
163
And that will eventually work, but it'll take forever.
164
It struck me that we need to do things in parallel processing, not zero processing.
165
If there are five interesting ideas, let's do all five at the same time and see which ones work, not do one at a time and go A, B, C, D, E, F, G.
166
So basically, what we drew up was a pretty aggressive vision.
167
Early on, it was giving money to people Columbia, et cetera, and we did set up Motor Neuro Institute there with someone who wanted to fund ALS as well, and quite similar diseases in terms of some of the impact.
168
But it occurred to us that academia, while very important, was never going to go and develop a drug.
169
And so we really had to create a virtual company.
170
So the thought then was hire some scientists, get some amazing advisors together to really help be our brain trust, and then sit down every so often with Everett and say, what do we need to do to go and move this ball down the field?
171
And then go and do it, whether we pay someone at a company or we give a grant or whatever, but give money, get it done, move on every front at the same time, and then keep coming back and saying, okay, what do we learn?
172
What did we learn?
173
Let's go on to the next thing.
174
Now, all that takes a lot of money.
175
My father would joke that for this rate hour kid, I developed the world's most expensive drug habit.
176
I was a partner going in.
177
And look, at some point, I would have left anyway.
178
In reality, at some point, if you love investing, you want to go and just do it in its own pure form.
179
But it certainly occurred to me at that point that given all this, it was time to get going.
180
One, because, of course, I'm passionate about investing and I wanted to build a great firm.
181
But second, because the value of doing that right now and the dollars that could come from it right now could save my daughter in a way that if I waited five years or three years or two years, it wouldn't.
182
The Axon name, routing back to the long answer, the very short question, was really just there to remind me of what the mission was.
183
And so it was always amusing because people would wonder, and I'd explain, well,, the axon is that it connects muscles and nerves and brain.
184
And so connecting thought to action.
185
And they thought that was a cool analogy from a just general perspective.
186
Every now and then, you'd get a scientist or a former company guy who would see our logo, which is the shape of an axon, and would get the fact that this was about medical research on stuff, which is always cute.
187
It's a bit of an Easter egg that we hid in there.
188
But look, so that was what we did.
189, functionally then, my day job was really there to pay for my night job, if you will.
190
We got teams together.
191
TPG was my partner in starting up Axon.
192
They were really remarkably helpful.
193
Through my relationships and through some of their network, we were able to really go and connect with some of the absolute rock stars in drug development and people that were not just smart scientists, but were biotech guys that really understood this stuff.
194
And I think for all of them, what was extraordinary was how much of their time and energy they wouldn't commit.
195
Obviously, we weren't paying anyone, but we would get a dozen and a half of the smartest drug development people in the entire world coming together for a couple of weekends a year and just taking time away from their families and their work and just sitting with us and brainstorming about our plan of action.
196
And I think part of it was because it sounds crazy to think about this, but there had not been a single meaningful drug for a neurological disease developed in decades.
197
Crazy, right?
198
So the idea that there was a chance to do something here was really cool because neurology was a graveyard.
199
I think everyone seemed to have this sense of excitement that, okay, there's an interesting plan here.
200
Maybe it will work, maybe it won't.
201
And there's someone willing to write the check and fund this.
202
So it's not about going and begging for money.
203
People, I think, were excited by the idea of joining in to go and figure out whether we could go and solve a disease.
204
One first stop was: look, there were some scientists that have done some work suggesting that some existing drugs could modify the disease and mice and things that.
205
So we basically created all these mouse models and cell models of different types to test different versions and each has pros and cons and set up facilities to essentially give them away for free.
206
So essentially what we said to everyone around the world, guys, send your drug libraries in, your compound libraries in, test them for free.
207
We'll pay for it.
208
You keep the IP.
209
We just want you to know if there's something interesting here on stuff.
210
And again, because no one cared about rare disease, let alone a pediatric one at that time, it took years before any company, even for free, was willing to do that, which is crazy.
211
Finally, we got Novartis to bite, and they ended up finding a drug that had failed for talk reasons for anorexia or something back in the 70s that was off the charts good.
212
And so suddenly, oh, this is interesting.
213
To give an example of just how different the world is now versus then, early on, had used relationships to go drag some of our scientists and some of our advisors, et cetera, to go meet with heads of research at different companies and try and pitch them and say, look, guys, I know this is a small disease, but there's a chance to do something.
214
It won't cost a whole lot to find out.
215
You don't have to spend 40% of marketing, all that stuff.
216
And so, one of my slides showed that if you charge $5,000 to $15,000 a year, you could end up with a drug worth hundreds of millions of dollars in profit.
217
And so, it wouldn't just be a charity project, you could make a little bit of money from it.
218
And the head of one of the largest biotech companies,, it'll have to be in the meeting and said, Look, Dineker, most expensive drug in the world is Vastin, which was an oncology drug, at $50,000 a year.
219
No one's ever going to pay that money for a small rare disease for children.
220
It became a running joke in the end because this person, Alexander, was an incredible advisor and helper to us, joined our SAB and really helped us really immensely.
221
At the end, the first drug that we helped develop through Colstrom Harbor Labs and then a company called Ionis, we then had them partner up with Biogen.
222
So, Biogen essentially bought in the drug and became the first to market with an SMA drug.
223
And when they did, they charged, I think, $730,000 a year for it.
224
I think they're a top-three drug pulling in, I think, four or five million dollars in revenue.
225
And so, amazingly, today, the SMA drug market, I think, is highest in which in billions, and it's a top three drug for Roshan Vartis and Biogen.
226
But the notion that a pediatric neurology drug would be anything of value back then was a hard sell.
227
And so, we basically had to go put it in a box with a bow on it and give it to people for free because otherwise they'll never touch it.
228
And that's really what we did.
229, we spent a fortune on models testing everything.
230
It was clear after testing everything that the existing FDA-approved drugs, some would have some impact, but none would be good enough, and you'd have toxicity issues.
231
So, it didn't work.
232
So, we then pursued all three shots on goal that we thought were relevant.
233
Colstrom Harvard Labs had a great scientist that had what's called an antisenseologose, or the first biologics.
234
Essentially, the viral vector takes a protein of the body, and he's designed to patch that defect in that backup gene and help that backup gene become a fully functioning regular gene, which would be magic, Presto.
235
That became the first drug, the one that Biogen ended up buying in.
236
Second was girl-fashioned small molecules, syringes and pills.
237
A bit Novartis, for example, had found something that worked.
238
We basically paid a company called PC Therapeutics.
239
lots and lots of money to go and test everything under the sun they can imagine with different screens and ended up finding one that really, really worked.
240
And so we basically just paid to develop that and then eventually got Rochan to go and take it from there.
241
That's the drug my daughter's on now.
242
In between was gene therapy, which a company called Avexis did and then Novartis bought in for $8 billion.
243
And I guess this would be the first gene therapy drug ever approved.
244
Here we didn't support it as directly from a financial and other perspective, though our board members were active industries and we helped them with the network and the library and the hypocrital networks.
245
Our focus, just being selfish to some degree, was that gene therapy is great, but only works for very little kids.
246
Essentially, in gene therapy, you're taking viruses, you're bringing protein in your body.
247
And when you're large, that amount of virus will kill you, basically.
248
The toxicity becomes an issue.
249
But we wanted all three shots on gold to be explored.
250
Look, we got lucky.
251
Today we have all three approved drugs.
252
So the first was that biogen cells.
253
The second was gene therapy with Avexis.
254
And the third is Roche, which is just a syringe you take every day.
255
That was incredible luck, I suppose.
256
But part of what we did from a time perspective, because we're desperately worried about the clock running out, was try and make sure that we could have everything in place so that when these drugs were ready, they could go 90 miles an hour.
257
And so, for example, we went to FDA through lots of relationships on the political side, both to get NIH moving, by the way, in the early days, and to help later on.
258
We got to know, if you will, all the relevant senators and congressmen that mattered when it came to drug development nih and things that and look our viewers just apparent with tears on their face it doesn't get very far but we would say look we want to be really supportive of you there's a chance here to achieve the success and that's why you should focus on this not just because it's sad but because it might be fixable and i think that became a powerful combination it took some work we for example got 50 top scientists who knew a lot of us winners to sign a letter talking about how there was a really good chance of successor we then started literally taking out full page color ads in some of the political newspapers in washington roll call daily hero that stuff so that all the staffers would see this very striking color ad every day on this stuff lots of stuff that to really go and essentially create a real sense of momentum on the side because it did occur to us that while end of the day development the drug matter and getting companies involved would matter everyone would move faster if they thought that the other guy was there too and with the fda as an example that really helped they worked with us and we said look guys we need this to move fast and so what can we do and by the way kids are dying we can't afford to run a placebo trial if it doesn't make any sense and so we worked with them and got their approval to essentially run a natural history study meaning while the drugs were being developed we basically paid for people's care for a handful of years so that we could have a log of what the natural progression of the disease was and use that as our placebo and so when it came time for the trials the trials didn't have to be placebo blood trials essentially because the fda was willing to accept the fact that they'll compare the results in the trial to what were the natural history study results of kids normally with SMA.
259
That saved a lot of lives and a lot of money because otherwise half the kids would have died in those trials, including potentially our daughter.
260
With all the persistence and with a few little help from our friends as well, the first SMA drug I think was then in being still now the fastest approval by the FDA ever in history of any drug.
261
Wow.
262
Which is pretty cool.
263
The good news, bad news, of course, my daughter ended up being on the first strike since she was 12, so has been stable since then, and has ended up being just the rock star of the family.
264
Went to Yale, won three of the 11 awards for most outstanding student class speaker, you name it.
265
And during COVID, amazingly, went on Hinge and met up with this unbelievably amazing 6-4, fantastic Princeton kid.
266
They fell in love and they got married last fall.
267
She's now getting her PhD at Cornell.
268
So I guess we'll end up with our doctor in the family.
269
But just watching her thrive has been remarkable.
270
That said, the clock was the clock.
271
Every year she got weaker until the drugs came along.
272
In SMA, the progression typically would be kids get weaker, stuff starts falling apart, your spine, and you need spinal fusions.
273
And that means your spine is constricted, you can't grow.
274
That creates lung damage.
275
And then you start getting pneumonia and all sorts of stuff.
276
And so you end up,, in the old days, you have enormous deformities with children.
277
And many degenerate diseases, ALS, Parkinson's, even Alzheimer's, no one dies of SMA.
278
It just makes you really weak, and then something gets you, whether it's fixation, or it's choking, or it's pneumonia more often than not.
279
Val Kilmer just destroyed a of pneumonia, but pneumonia was really just a side effect of throat cancer.
280
In her case, our goal was to manically keep her as strong as possible until the drugs can come along.
281
And so, physical therapists coming to see her every day, but we built a pool in our apartment building for her because you need warm water and it's a special therapy pool.
282
But that was important because when you're a person who's weak, part of the problem is it's circular.
283
You're weak, you can't exercise and stretch your muscles and bones, so they keep getting weaker and weaker on top of the original problem in the first place.
284
And that creates this devastating cycle.
285
And so, here between diet, between exercise, between therapy, the goal was to go and keep her as strong as possible to hold off that damage from all these things.
286
And it worked and it didn't work.
287
She did end up needing spinal fusion and having rods put in her back, et cetera.
288
But fortunately, those were late enough that she had already grown.
289
And so, it didn't create the deformity you'd normally see in someone else.
290
She had problems with her hips that blew out and things that.
291
When she was turning 10, 11, every year there became a major surgery.
292
And even aside from those major surgeries, she was in the operating room or she was in the hospital probably three times a year with severe pneumonia at risk of dying each time.
293
And with all these things, it is a bit humpty-dumpty-.
294
Once it breaks, you can't just put it back together again.
295
On one hand, if it had been a year earlier, that would have been all the better.
296
But the good news is that compared to what we expected at the outset, to see her here in a rock star and truly happy with amazing friends and husband is just so touching.
297
I describe to people: if you have a boat and you have a hole in it, trying to bail water out of the boat is not really going to be a useful strategy.
298
You're going to sink just maybe a tiny bit slower.
299
Once you fix that hole and now there's water in the boat, now bailing water in the boat could be a really good strategy.
300
Mission stage two now is that we're working on a ton of drugs that we think can regenerate muscle.
301
Nerve is harder to do, but muscle is a little bit easier and also help existing nerves get a little bit stronger on stuff.
302
We have one already in the clinic, it's not the best one, but we expect to have three or four things coming forward that could be really impactful.
303
And what's pretty cool about this is that the SMA drugs are SMA specific, 20,000 kids, so it's a lot of people, but they're SMA specific.
304
These regeneration drugs will help lots of people.
305
And it's ironic because SMA is becoming a poster child for this because cake muscle is an example.
306
I assume that there'll be tons of people and experts that knew all about muscle development from muscle stem cells called satellite cells into muscles, et cetera.
307
There may be six people in this country that know what they're talking about when it comes to muscle.
308
It's crazy.
309
I assume, well, gosh,, if you've got A-ROD and steroids and all that stuff,, there must be big money in it.
310
But the reality is, muscle has been a really tough field for a couple of interesting reasons.
311
There are two types of people that have muscle problems: people with degenerative diseases SMA, muscular dystrophy, et cetera.
312
Or on the other side, old, weak people.
313
Old, weak people are a disaster to go and do trials on, and you're trying to see what a moderate impact can make when there's such a decline happening.
314
And so, clinical trials, and this is the problem with Alzheimer's, are very, very challenging in elderly degenerating parents.
315
And in that first category, people with muscular disease, until SMA, none of them had been solved.
316
And so it's a bit that boat that you haven't fixed the hole in in the first place.
317
SMA is now becoming this really fascinating area because suddenly, if you have an idea for a muscle drug, you can test an SMA and see whether it does something because now you've fixed that boat, if you will.
318
And so it is funny, quite a difference from 20 years ago when no one cared.
319
Now, suddenly, we're calling up people saying, Look, we think there's an idea.
320
Your drug can really work here.
321
Let's go test it out.
322
They're doing it.
323
So fingers crossed, I think my hope here is that we'll end up with a handful of drugs in the next handful of years that could really help bring back some strength for kids with SMA and other things as well.
324
That would be amazing because as amazing a life as the daughter has now, she is still fragile.
325
And when you're fragile, as you get older, things happen.
326
And so if we can bring back some strength, that will be even more transformative and even more impactful.
327
So it's exciting stuff.
328
The third time I'll say it, one of the most remarkable, inspiring, incredible stories I've ever heard of this type.
329
And I'd love just to put a bow on it by asking what the prognosis is now for a new child born with this issue with these drugs available from a very early age versus from the age of 12 when your daughter started on them.
330
So a childborn and getting the drug close diagnosis will never show symptoms.
331
Unbelievable.
332
20,000 kids.
333
Yeah.
334
20,000 kids and their families.
335
Many of the people that we've gotten to know the best over the years are people whose kids are affected by disease because there's a commonality and it's devastating for everyone.
336
Parents who lose their jobs because they keep taking time off and they can't afford insurance.
337, it's just this horrible spiral.
338
There's a family, the father worked at Walmart.
339
They had twins with SMA and we just wanted to cry hearing their story.
340
That is the funny irony with all this stuff.
341
My parents were both scientists and they would joke that it was such a tragedy that both their kids became partners golden sacks.
342
In some ways, this all came full circle because having some of the science background, but having the good fortune and the good luck and privilege of working in investing and finance helped us go and put that science to work.
343
A further amazing irony, Columbia was our leading center in all this, and my mom had worked on Factually Columbia.
344
And Roche makes the drug that my daughter's on.
345
And my father got a job at Roche, and it was a Roche scholarship I paid for my college.
346
Unbelievable.
347
Funny how it's ended up being a circle process, but it costs a lot of money.
348
I think we spent probably $150 million of our own money on this.
349
But in the scheme of things, the commitment that we made at the beginning to ourselves was that if there was a way, we were going to find it.
350
And no matter what, make sure that we were able to go and drive through it.
351
And winding back to where we started in some of this, I guess that's a bit of the stubbornness, but also maybe a preferable word.
352
It's the determination I saw in my parents.
353
So, in that sense, I think really nothing less than one that I would do for my daughter.
354
When I step back, I've now had the luck to hear the story twice.
355
When you told it to me the first time, it seems almost absurd.
356
If you submitted a screenplay for this, you'd get laughed out of the room by the producer.
357
You're going to start one of the fastest-growing investment firms, one of the most successful investment firms, save your daughter, save 20,000 kids, develop a drug, which just economically is very valuable, to say, which is a footnote compared to the impact it has on the lives and the families.
358
It's almost not believable.
359
It's so incredible.
360
It's such an incredible story.
361
What you didn't say the first time, which makes it even more magical, is the tie back to your parents and their persistence.
362
And honestly, it's just one of the most incredible inspirational stories I've heard.
363
And a follow-up question that I have is what you learned, maybe that you've taught other parents about persisting through years of this effort and what advice you might give to people that have to dig deep every day for so long to be able to accomplish the thing that they're trying to do for a loved one or for a similarly powerful reason because it's not hard for me to imagine the love for the child but it's hard for me to imagine the ability with my body to get through it for so long and i'm curious how you did that when i was two or three we were getting into nursery school and by the way another saga and another crusade that i'm going to be on more aggressively going forward the getting schools to care or take her was unbelievably hard when she was going to private school i think she was the only kid in a major new york city private school in wheelchair and i know this as well because i'm on lots of boards public library lots of inspection boards lots of eventual friends lots of charity relationships i couldn't find a single school that would take her many are perfectly accessible but i'd get calls from friends on the board saying it's just not going to happen the ostensible reason i think one school said she wasn't bright enough crazy turned out to be maybe not bright enough for them but bright enough to be straight a's and ill and all that stuff one school asked to see her medical records and talk to her doctor before you consider guys that's absolutely illegal but you had to do it because it might be illegal, but unless i tried,, so when she would start in school, we would send up write-ups to other parents basically saying, Here's what SMA is, here's what to make of it.
364
But in any event, for nursery school, she went to All Souls, which is the Interior and Church School.
365
And initially, they didn't want to take her, and they said, Look, there's great cerebral palsy schools you could send her to.
366
I'm, Yeah, that'd be great, except she doesn't have cerebral palsy, guys.
367
This is a totally different disease.
368
But eventually, I think they felt badly, and they took her, and she had a great experience.
369
But you're supposed to go and volunteer to give sermons as members of the congregation, and so I did.
370
I'll read you that quickly speaks a bit.
371
Please, most of you have probably never heard of SMA.
372
We certainly hadn't, and we're horrified by what we learned.
373
It's the most common genetic killer of infants, and it's untreatable, incurable, and eventually fatal.
374
It's described as a children's version of ALS or a genetic version of polio.
375
Simply put, motor neurons die, muscles break down, leading to eventually fatal complications.
376
In most cases, SMA killed in the first two years of life, while severe cases, such as our daughter's, depression can take many years.
377
So, as the mind grows, the body steadily weakens and eventually betrays it.
378
Obviously, we were devastated and shattered.
379
And over the past year, our hearts have broken every day as we've watched her become irresistibly adorable and learn to sing, tell jokes, talk endlessly, but also lose the ability to stand up, the ability to crawl, settle, and walk, the ability to even sit up by herself.
380
And yet, three realizations have helped us slowly face the future.
381
First, we've truly learned and appreciated the importance of friends and community.
382
The comfort and love of friends has been a source of incredible strength for us.
383
And meeting other parents with issues and learning from them and the incredible challenges many of them deal with has been an incredible source of inspiration for us.
384
We've realized that there are no good diseases, but there are many, many strong people, and their courage is truly infectious, far more than they need disease.
385
More than ever, we've come to realize how much deeper our reserves of strength are as part of community than as individuals.
386
Second, through the strength, comfort, and spiritual friends, we've gained some perspective and been able to focus on finding the joy in the life that we have.
387
We slowly realized that if we just hold our heads in our hands, we're accomplishing nothing for our daughter or ourselves for that matter.
388
And first, it's hard not to be consumed by the shattered dreams and lost notions of what could have been.
389
Yet over time, we've come to focus on the many good things that can be and realize that there is joy in every day.
390
If anything, we're now much more focused on appreciating the little things in life.
391
And today, despite all the issues, our daughter is as happy and joyful as any child we know.
392
And we are as lucky as any parent we know to have a child as sweet and adorable as she is.
393
So we've learned from our daughter that while the sources of joy and happiness might be different than what previously imagined, that doesn't mean that the magnitude of the joy is any less.
394
And third, we realize the importance of channeling the netible anger and sorrow into productive channels so as to perhaps have some good, some purpose, some meaning in all this.
395
And so we've joined the other parents of children with SMA in efforts to improve care and further research that this disease may one day be eradicated.
396
In doing so, we've found a productive outlet for our sorrow and our anger, and also a real reason for hope.
397
And finally, let me just say how grateful we've been to be part of such a wonderful community.
398
The strength and comfort offered by many of you has helped us focus on life, not on sorrow.
399
After all, in life, there are no do-overs, there are no attractions, there are no appeals.
400
You either find joy in the life you have or live a life without joy.
401
And while the circumstances of your life might not be up to you, whether you choose to find joy and purpose in them is very much ultimately up to you.
402
So that was the speech.
403
Wow.
404
Jesus.
405
But I think it captures the process that one goes through.
406
I think for every parent, it's part sorrow and it's part rage.
407
And depending on the moment, sometimes it's more rage than sorrow.
408
You just want to go and break everything.
409
But I do think that you do eventually figure out that that is, well, very consuming.
410
It's not going to get very far under any circumstance.
411
So this is where knowing other people and talking to people that have gone through things this is hugely helpful because it just helps you recognize that there's a journey on all this stuff.
412
And so I think every parent I know whose child is an issue was unbelievably emotionally supportive to us.
413
And as well, almost every couple of weeks, I'll get a call from someone saying, look, I've got a friend or someone, et cetera, who has a disease.
414
They want to make an impact on it.
415
They've heard your story.
416
Can you help?
417
And that's, to me, the greatest joy I have speaking to other parents and helping them think about what they can do, what can be done, what can't be done, et cetera.
418
I joined the board of Jackson Labs.
419
They had essentially been to mouse models and are still the leader in that.
420
It's an incredible institution.
421, no drug has ever been developed without using their mice.
422
So I joke, it's the most important biotech institute that no one has heard of.
423
Early on, we had gone to them to work on building mouse models and making them free so people could call them up and they'd send the mice overall.
424
But I'm working with them and setting up a research use institute.
425
We're going to have a squad of people to do a bit of what we did in SMA because I hear all these heartbreaking stories, and they're the same things that I had 20 years ago.
426
People that want to make a difference don't just want to go and make random donations.
427
They think we'll just be throwing water on sand.
428
They don't know how.
429
And in our case, we had a lot of resources and a lot of connections and money and could essentially go reinvent or invent the wheel.
430
But for other people, it's a waste of money, it's a waste of time, both of which are incredibly scarce when you're a parent with a child who's suffering.
431
And so our goal is to have, they call it the ghostbusters of rare disease, where if you have a disease, you call us and we'll get some scientists to work on it to go and help you put together a plan, not caring whether it's with us or not, but essentially help be the brain trust for people to want to go and think about game plans for trying to solve a disease that affects someone they care about.
432
How do you hope the world of biotech evolves or changes, given your incredible ground-level experience?
433
Not only just knowing how the system works and also the extreme steps it took for you to speed up timelines, but also knowing the potential impact can be so massive.
434
20,000 kids, no evidence, no symptoms in their life because of your work and everyone that you worked with and their work.
435
How do you hope with all that experience and knowledge that the system itself evolves?
436
Well, some good things and some bad things, I guess, that have happened leading to what I hope will happen next.
437
On the good side, you don't have to bash someone over the head to get them to understand that rare disease can be lucrative for them.
438, SMA has been, there aren't been that many, but when people have seen the money that's been made on this stuff, people care.
439
But the challenge remains, which is that if you're a company working on oncology, even if there is no drug tomorrow, you're going to be working on oncology for the next hundred years, and that information can be useful in other things.
440
The challenge with rare disease remains that a lot of these are pretty bespoke.
441
So, the difference from 20 years ago is that you don't need to convince someone that it could be very profitable, but you still have to convince them that there's a good chance that they'll be able to go and cure it because that early stage investment is tricky.
442
There needs to be a much more thoughtful effort working with NIH, FDA, and disease groups to find ways to go and have a much more thoughtful, practical, early stage.
443
Because scientists writing papers and grants is really not a very effective way to get this done.
444
And there's still too big a gap between a good scientific idea and when a biotech company is going to go and spend the money and do it.
445
You don't have to get into the 10-yard line anymore, but you still have to go to midfield.
446
And so, I think more novel structures would be great.
447
And I tip back to that NIH translational research program from way back when.
448
While it didn't end up making that much of a difference in SMA because we just ended up throwing the money out and going it ourselves, it's a pretty cool idea.
449
And if one could do that, again, it's that Ghostbusters idea that I'm doing at Jackson Labs.
450
Because the problem is, we found in this world that companies mean well, but they're not trying to solve a disease, they're trying to attach value to an IP that they have.
451
Meaning, if you solve SMA with something that they don't have IP on, it isn't very useful.
452
Scientists are in the business of getting grants, and you don't get grants for, let's say, parallel processing or ruling things out.
453
You don't get a grant by saying, I don't think this is going to work, but I just want to prove it doesn't work so I can then move on.
454
That doesn't get you random on stuff.
455
But a lot of those things and the tools and things that are very much the nitty-gritty that get you through that early stage where you say, Whoa, I've got something.
456
And so, whether it's places Jackson Labs, whether it's NIH, having these amped up translational research efforts where people can set aside a little bit of money, because honestly, that early stage doesn't cost that much either.
457
It's later on that you really start going down money rabbit holes.
458
But for a relatively small amount of money, you could go and get people a good chunk down the field to where companies would care more.
459
When you think about, obviously, the flavor of the day is tear government down.
460
Government did a pretty good job in some of this stuff, but certainly we can make government smarter.
461
And I think whether it's government or whether it's institutions JAX, there is a role here to be played that could be pretty thoughtful, where a few diseases are picked at a time and a modest amount of money is put in or coordinated so that you end up having a game plan.
462
Because what a lot of people just need is a game plan as opposed to handing money out randomly.
463
And also a third party that's viewed as being somewhat neutral, because academics are great people, but man, they don't collaborating that much.
464
And companies really don't covering each other because it's an IP problem.
465
And companies and universities now are having more difficulty collaborating because universities want IP because they've seen the money you can get from royalties and stuff that.
466
So having a third party that's Switzerland and can be a bit of an honest broker on this stuff is pretty important.
467
So that's my hope.
468
Finding a way to have a more thoughtful process so that people don't have to go and try and figure out how to go and see if there's something there.
469
Now, on the back end, boy,, it's good that people cover disease, but the cost of this stuff is insane.
470, what companies are charging is just nuts.
471
I wish when we had put all the money in, we had put in restrictions on what companies could eventually charge because a million to two million bucks a year is bonkers.
472
Give you a funny example of it.
473
I remember talking to the people at Columbia when the first drug was coming out, and it was a working capital problem that had to bring their CFO in because since Columbia was a major center, it could fill in Harvard or Stanford or whatever as well.
474
The SMA drug costs $800,000 a year, the first one.
475
And so to go and buy the doses to treat the kids would have cost tens of millions of dollars that they didn't have their budget.
476
It's crazy.
477
It's a real issue.
478
And I still get calls, and we get calls all the time from people in other countries because, for example, there's a Goldman Sachs analyst who is from Uzbekistan, and they called asking for help because their family knows someone close to them whose daughter is diagnosed.
479
And if they get treatment, they'll be saved.
480
But Uzbekistan, there's no place to get treated in Uzbekistan.
481
You can't just come to the U.S.
482
and get treated because all sorts of legal and other issues and loopholes.
483
And of course, then you got to cough up the money to do it as well, costing a couple million bucks.
484
You can't just go to London and do it because, again, the whole regulatory framework is crazy.
485
And so there are still kids dying of SMA.
486
Even in cases, in this case, for example, the family had gone around through supermarket stuff, meaning cans and signs in town, raised $400,000 to get her treated.
487
And they couldn't find someone to take the money or find a practical leader treatment around stuff and show she was going to die or suffer unnecessarily because of crazy regulatory bureaucratic stuff between countries.
488
We got to figure out something on the cost.
489
And maybe it's with these drugs having some amount of money get set aside when there are these windfall profits to go and help charity care and things that.
490
But the notion that we develop these drugs and their kids that are dying because they can't afford them is pretty insane.
491
It's hard for me to ask my traditional closing question in this particular case because of the story you've just told and knowing that contained in the story is so much kindness in so many directions that I'm sure it'll be hard to know where to begin.
492
But my question that I ask everybody is for the kindest thing that anyone's ever done for them.
493
After a daughter is diagnosed, people just giving me hugs lose about the best feeling on earth.
494
And there's nothing more powerful than just compassion from friends, strangers, just to feel you're all human together.
495
I think in life, at our worst moments, just getting some of people's strength and energy imbued in you a little bit gives you the ability to go and stand up and move forward the next day.
496
I'm sure I speak for literally everyone listening when I say thank you for telling this story.
497
You've imbued us, certainly me, with that same strength and determination.
498
It's incredible what you've done already.
499
I'm sure what you will continue to do.
500
I love hearing about your daughter's current state and her wonderful marriage and what a way to spend my day.
501
Thank you so much for your time.
502
Of course.
503
Thanks, Bye.
504
If you enjoyed this episode, visit joincolossus.com where you'll find every episode of this podcast complete with hand-edited transcripts.
505
You can also subscribe to Colossus Review, our quarterly print, digital, and private audio publication featuring in-depth profiles of the founders, investors, and companies that we admire most.
506
Learn more at joincolossus.com/slash subscribe.