--- METADATA START ---
Show: N/A
Episode: Do You Really Know Your ICP? W… - a16z Podcast
Host: Emma Janowski
GUESTS: Joe Morrissey, Michael King, Mark Reagan
Guests: Joe Morrissey, Michael King, Mark Reagan
Source URL: https://podcasts.apple.com/us/podcast/do-you-really-know-your-icp-why-it-matters-and-how-to-find-out/id842818711?i=1000706653733
--- METADATA END ---

 (upbeat music)
 - ICP is the central nervous system
 of the entire customer journey.
 Conversion rates, expansion rates,
 the length of your sales cycles.
 If you look at those,
 they're almost all telling you something about your ICP
 at all times.
 - If you're like,
 we sell to everyone, we build to everyone for everyone.
 Maybe you're not selling to anybody yet.
 - It not only shows who you need to target
 and what you need to target the customer with,
 but also why the customer would need your product.
 - Your ideal customer profile, or ICP,
 is the low star of your company.
 It defines who you're building, marketing,
 and selling your products to.
 And most growth stage founders think they know
 who their ICP is,
 because they found product market fit after all.
 - I don't know that you necessarily have
 from product market fit.
 Sometimes you just get really lucky
 and I call that the curse of early success.
 - And here's the thing.
 Very few can define and refine their ICP
 well enough to keep the company focused on it
 as they grow.
 This lack of clarity can open a Pandora's box problems
 across the org.
 Pipeline not getting filled,
 chances are it's an ICP problem.
 Product roadmap stalling out, ICP problem.
 Marketing has been through the roof, ICP problem.
 - You could be missing a huge market opportunity
 if you misidentify your ICP.
 - In this first episode of A-16Z Growth's
 new company scaling series,
 the A-16Z Guide to Growth,
 we take a step back and explain why understanding
 your ICP should be a company-wide effort.
 And while getting this right is even more important
 in the AI era.
 - As soon as you have a successful product,
 there will absolutely be competition in the market.
 - A-16Z Growth Partner,
 I'm a Janowski,
 sits down with growth general partner
 and former CEO of segment, Joe Morrissey,
 but also A-16Z Partner is Michael King,
 who was a gardener before building full-stack
 marketing teams at companies like GitHub and VMware,
 and Mark Reagan, who was most recently
 the VP of RevOps at segment.
 Together, they dive into what truly makes a great ICP,
 including what it is, but also what it isn't.
 - Is it meaningfully different than the way
 you might talk about segmentation or a psychographic
 or firmographic or is it a constellation
 of all of those things put together?
 - They also tackle how you know if you've outgrown
 your existing ICP and how and when to define,
 but also redefine it as you scale.
 They touch on how to make some hard decisions
 when you're implementing a new ICP,
 like saying no to customers,
 and how it shows up in the business when you get it right.
 The first voice is Emma's, then we have Michael, Mark,
 and then finally, Joe.
 Let's get started.
 As a reminder, the content here
 is for informational purposes only.
 Should not be taken as legal, business, tax,
 or investment advice,
 or be used to evaluate any investment or security,
 and is not directed at any investors
 or potential investors in any A-16Z fund.
 Please note that A-16Z and its affiliates
 may also maintain investments
 in the companies discussed in this podcast.
 For more details including a link to our investments,
 please see a16c.com/disquotures.
 - Why are we talking about ICP?
 If I am a growth stage founder,
 I found product market fit.
 I probably know my ICP, right?
 I'm growing, I'm scaling.
 Why do I need to care about this?
 - I don't know that you necessarily have
 a product market fit.
 Sometimes you just get really lucky,
 and I call that the curse of early success.
 Sometimes you just have such a compelling product,
 or you sometimes just have such a compelling story
 around the product that people gravitate towards you.
 And you don't necessarily have to have an ICP.
 You're just selling to anybody
 who'll come through the front door.
 And if that's successful, you're like,
 "Great, I've nailed my ICP, it's everybody."
 But when you start to refine your sales process,
 you start to bring in more people to sell the product,
 it starts being not led by a founder,
 the conversation is led by a salesperson,
 or perhaps an SDR, or perhaps someone else like that.
 All of a sudden, that ICP becomes a lot more important.
 You got to scale a marketing program.
 You got to scale a sales team.
 You got to scale a bunch of other things like that.
 All of a sudden, you really got to know
 who you're talking to, why are they buying?
 What are they buying?
 How are they selling it internally?
 - Before I came into this role,
 when I was an operator in the companies I had been in
 before in revenue operations,
 I don't think I had enough respect for just,
 to what extent the ICP is the central nervous system
 of the entire customer journey?
 Almost every KPI that everybody is familiar with today,
 when you think of conversion rates,
 expansion rates, the length of your sales cycles,
 any of these things that normally you would signal to,
 "Oh, we have a pipeline issue,"
 or "We need more SDRs," and things like this.
 The truth is, if you look at those,
 they're almost all telling you something about your ICP
 at all times.
 So for example, there are some companies
 I've been working with over the past couple of years
 where over time they start to see
 declining pipeline conversion rates.
 And you start to circle around that
 and look for things you can do better,
 tactically in that,
 "Well, we need a little bit better messaging here.
 "We have this laggy process where too much time
 "where leads are in this or that queue."
 And those things could be true,
 but in almost every one of those cases,
 what you usually find is that you have your sales force,
 often talking to the wrong people with the wrong message.
 And it gives all the way back to that continuous alignment
 and always being relevant
 and targeting the best possible customers
 and the best personas within those customers
 with the best messaging and relevancy around
 how your product is gonna solve pain.
 And then when you get that right,
 all of those indicators will tell you
 whether you have it right or not.
 They're not gonna lie to you.
 If they're hitting the targets you want,
 you're doing a pretty good job
 of operationalizing your ICP.
 - But I think that focus on the customer journey
 is the reason why it's so hard to diagnose
 an ICP problem 'cause you're looking at it,
 oh, I've got an onboarding problem.
 I've got a marketing problem.
 I've got a sales problem.
 I think to your point, Mark,
 you've got to look at the entire customer journey
 from first touch through when they're a million dollar
 customer and if you start to see issues
 anywhere along the way,
 first make sure you've got your ICP correct
 and then start to look at,
 okay, maybe I do have a customer support issue
 'cause if your ICP is missing,
 you can throw a lot more dollars at marketing
 or change your marketing mix up
 or do whatever you want.
 And if you still got your ICP wrong,
 those are still gonna be dollars you'll spend.
 If you're like, we sell to everyone,
 we build to everyone for everyone.
 Maybe you're not selling to anybody yet.
 - And I think the biggest downstream
 negative consequences is actually one
 where it's missed opportunity.
 So the biggest risk often is opportunity cost.
 So when you're chasing the wrong profile,
 your ideal customers might be adopting
 a competitor's product
 or simply unaware of your solution.
 And so you could be missing a huge market opportunity
 if you misidentify your ICP.
 - Let's just even take a step back.
 What is an ICP?
 What counts as an ICP?
 What does a good ICP look like?
 What does a bad ICP look like?
 - An ICP should tell you not only who you should target
 but also why those customers should need you.
 So broadly defined, an ICP is a detailed description
 of the ideal set of customers for your product.
 And it typically should include
 firmographic details,
 behavioral traits of those companies.
 And it should be as gnarly defined as you can get it.
 A good example of that would be
 global B2C multinational corporations
 that are multi-brand, multi-product,
 and wanna use data to go direct to consumer.
 So you're not only getting a sense of the type of company
 and the vertical and the industry that they're playing in,
 but why they need your product,
 what the unique value for your product is.
 It's actually got to include defensible differentiation.
 And so you think about what is defensible
 differentiation, it comes in three forms.
 One, there's unique differentiation.
 There's the things that your product does
 and the pains that your product solves
 that your competitors can't.
 There's comparative differentiation.
 There's the things that your product does
 and your competitors' product does,
 but maybe you do them better.
 And then there's holistic differentiation.
 There's the things about you as a company
 or your solution that are very different.
 You might be the best funded
 or you may have the most experience
 in this particular domain.
 And I think that is so critical
 in determining what your ICP is,
 because you've not just got to look
 and identify those customers
 that have the biggest pain points that you can solve,
 but also the ones where you have
 the most defensible differentiation
 versus your competitors.
 I agree with you all, 100%.
 I think the more narrow you can define it
 at first, the better off you are.
 The ICP should be, I'll call them searchable metrics,
 in other words.
 If you define your ICP as companies
 that have these specific characteristics
 around how they think about customers
 and their buying patterns and things like that,
 how are you going to find them?
 But if you say it is a customer
 with international capabilities of a certain size
 and a certain dollar send it,
 then you can target them from a market.
 Now, marketing data's gotten a lot better
 and customer data's gotten a lot better,
 but you still can't describe in flowery language
 what you think this company might be feeling and thinking
 because you're not going to be able to market to that.
 You're not going to be able to find them online
 or at conferences or any other places, right?
 You need those objective qualities.
 You need those objective qualities.
 I think GONG was a great example
 of a very, very narrow customer focus.
 Like they focused on B2B software companies
 selling at a certain amount of dollars
 with a certain amount of employees selling over Zoom
 and it narrowed it down to,
 I think the number was 5,000 total companies in their ICP.
 And then they built from that base up.
 I think the customer success platform
 I was talking about has done a really, really good job
 at narrowing down.
 This is Pylon and what they've done
 is they've done a great job at narrowing down.
 We sell to B2B software companies
 that are supporting enterprise companies
 with highly complex support flows
 and customer success teams and multiple teams involved.
 So I think that narrow focus early on,
 particularly in competitive spaces, is really, really good.
 - I mean, I'm hearing all of this and it sounds like,
 yeah, you want to get pretty granular
 but I think there are a lot of different ways
 to slice the question of who is your customer.
 And so does the ICP, is it meaningfully different
 than the way you might talk about segmentation
 or a psychographic or firmographic
 or is it a constellation of all of those things put together?
 - The ICP gives you a place to focus,
 whereas the personas give you a who to focus on
 and who to build value statements for
 and who to market to directly and sell to directly.
 One is more about focusing,
 one's a little bit more about building an audience.
 You need them both though.
 - Segmentation is really about identifying
 the groups of customers that would be interested
 in your products.
 So you could say this is SaaS companies or Telco companies.
 ICP is much more narrow.
 And so you're explicitly defining the type of company,
 the size of the company,
 the pain points that that company has,
 why they need your product.
 And then personas are something different, right?
 So personas are the individuals within those companies
 that own the pains that your product solves
 that can in many cases influence the choice to buy your product.
 And very often are the folks who are actually going
 to make the decision to buy the product in the end.
 - Yeah, I mean, that encapsulates a lot
 of how I think about it.
 I think your ICP has everything to do
 with the type of company that you're selling to.
 I think your persona does have to be very, very different
 because the personas oftentimes encompassing a buying circle,
 not a single buyer, not sometimes you have a single buyer
 and that's fine, but oftentimes you have multiple buyers,
 or multiple stakeholders in the buying process.
 You have a security team, you have an IT team,
 you have a champion, you have users,
 you have influencers within that.
 And I think you do need to separate those two out.
 - Is there a gut test that we could give to founders,
 like a couple of questions they should ask themselves,
 do you know who your ICP is?
 - I have five questions I ask.
 - Love it, let's hear them.
 - So first one is, which of your current customers
 makes the most out of your products and services?
 Who uses it the most?
 Who are your best users, your biggest users?
 What traits do those customers have in common?
 What reoccurring objections do you see
 when you lose an opportunity or when people churn?
 Which customers are the easiest to upsell and why?
 And what do the customers of your closest competitors
 have in common?
 If they can answer all of those questions,
 then they typically will know their ICP very, very well.
 Now, again, I have a list if they can answer
 all the questions, company size, industries,
 have problems, company specifics,
 unique buying behaviors, type of business,
 all those types of things.
 They can answer all those, then they've got that.
 If they can't, they'll use those first five questions
 to find out what the ICP is.
 - That's a great framework.
 And I think it also alludes to one of the challenges
 you have when you're working with startup companies
 or when you're in a startup.
 When a lot of what you're trying to do there
 is you're taking your best educated guesses
 at the answers to all those questions, right?
 And it is something at first
 where you just don't have a lot of feedback in the market.
 You still don't have a lot of customers yet.
 You don't have a lot of signals
 from all the different segments,
 the geographies, the individual personas,
 especially the earlier stage that we run into
 because you want to go as broad as possible
 because you're trying to actually
 explore that product market fit that you have
 and start to express your growth
 in a bunch of different directions through that.
 And you don't want to bargain against yourself
 by becoming too precise too early.
 However, I think if we're all being honest
 with ourselves, usually focuses the problem, right?
 It is usually the case that if you went
 and arbitrarily picked five different companies
 and looked at the way they are defining their ICP
 and going to market and operationalizing that ICP,
 they're nearly always not as focused as they could be,
 and thus not nearly as effective as they could be
 exploiting that.
 And what happens over time is you have the ability
 to gather those and harness those
 and start to create a feedback loop
 that allows you to answer Michael's questions,
 both in terms of the things you know
 and the things you believe as hopefully a leader
 in your space, but also due to what's coming back
 from the interactions your sales force is having
 with prospects, what your customer success managers
 are having with your customers,
 which customers are expanding and why
 you have all of these signals out there
 that you can start to harness and bring into the answers
 to the questions in that framework.
 - Yeah, I think this is actually a pitch
 why you need a strong rev ops practice
 in your organization early.
 And again, this is maybe a pitch for you Mark,
 but I think you do need to have it
 because otherwise you're taking the few customer
 conversations that you've had and that's providing bias.
 You need a standardized methodology of looking at these
 interrogating these and applying the right amount
 of recency bias to the organizations
 that you are interacting with most regularly.
 - I love Mark, you were saying this is kind of like
 the central nervous system of your whole org.
 The word that occurred to me was root cause
 of a lot of issues, right?
 But if it's so important, who's responsible
 for defining it?
 - I think it's really a company-wide responsibility,
 right?
 I think in the early stages, for sure,
 it's got to come from the founders, right?
 And so there are kind of different stages of finding ICP.
 So I would say pre-product market fit,
 you've actually got to be pretty open minded
 about what ICP will end up looking for
 because you haven't found it yet.
 But once you have hit product market fit,
 I think it's really incumbent on the founders
 to pay close attention to how they think
 this is going to evolve.
 And then throughout the company's journey,
 there are a couple of inflection points.
 Certainly when you move from founder-led sales
 to a more repeatable motion,
 typically like around the series A,
 then you're bringing in a sales team and it's scaling, right?
 And so you start to see sales leaders
 become very closely involved in defining
 and refining the ICP.
 As you're moving up market or down market,
 that has a massive impact on how your ICP changes.
 Ultimately, I think you very often see
 the responsibility for ICP at least the growth stage
 being shared at the executive team level.
 I'd agree with that.
 I think everybody has to own it, if you will.
 And everybody should have input to it.
 Your sales team, they're looking at six to 12 months,
 the marketing team, they're looking at 18 to 24 months,
 your product team, they're looking at.
 So I think the different kind of viewpoints
 are important to bring to the table.
 But each of them are going to have input to that ICP.
 And your customer success team is going to have all
 historical data, which customers have been successful,
 which have not, which have turned off,
 all those things like that.
 And so again, that refinement process
 is going to occur if you continue to ask questions.
 Well, why are these customers successful?
 Well, how does the product service these
 cause to steal Joe's line?
 You keep asking why until you get to the root of the problem.
 The other thing I would look at,
 and I think one of the rough sketches that I'll hold to
 is when I put together an ICP,
 I'll take a look at the TAM of that ICP,
 and I'll understand what is my fair percentage,
 what is my unfair percentage.
 And if I'm capturing an unfair percentage of that TAM,
 then I know that's probably a really good ICP for me.
 If I'm unable to capture even my fair share,
 then maybe there's not really good alignment
 between my use cases and that particular ICP.
 - Wait, and how would you be able to tell
 what percentage you can capture?
 Is it because of the alignment of use cases
 with their pain points?
 - Correct, use cases with their pain points
 and what the total TAM is, right?
 And if you're like, hey, if I'm alone in this market,
 then I should be able to win 80% of my deals on it.
 If I'm one of four players,
 then maybe I should get 25% of that marketplace.
 - I'm wondering about the sort of product intuition,
 vision and mission here, which is kind of an X factor,
 where I can imagine founders getting a bunch of data
 saying like this should be our ICP,
 and founders thinking, that's not really what I'm building.
 Like that's not really what my mission is.
 And so I'm curious if any of you have seen companies
 that have maybe gotten some data back and thought,
 actually, that's not what I really wanna build
 and have gone on to do something else
 and been successful.
 - I've seen the opposite thing.
 I worked with a founder who was from the security world
 and they were building what they thought
 was a security product, and they built it,
 and they talked to a number of security buyers,
 and none of the security buyers bit on it.
 But what they noticed is that every single time
 they had a conversation with a security buyer,
 they brought in a platform operations people,
 they brought in a platform operations people
 to either validate or have the conversation.
 And eventually, after a couple of these conversations,
 the founder and I were talking and he said,
 I don't think I'm building a security product.
 I think I'm building a DevOps product.
 And we went through it and we said,
 well, who's gonna benefit from it, who's gonna use it?
 So I've seen that opposite problem,
 where the product intuition and their history
 took them one direction, but in reality,
 the customer feedback took them to the right ICP eventually.
 What's the outcome from an ICP exercise?
 Does your ICP fit on one page of a Google Doc?
 They go through, Michael, they ask some of your questions,
 they work backwards from existing customer data,
 what's the thing everybody creates?
 - In my opinion, the ICP is a list of qualities
 and differentiators and thermographic
 and typographic information,
 that then your marketing team, your sales team,
 your product team can all action on.
 Should be probably less than a page in my opinion.
 - I think that's right.
 It not only shows you who you need to target
 and what you need to target the customer with,
 but also why the customer would need your product specifically,
 and who owns the pain within those organizations,
 as Michael said before, who are the champions,
 who are the influencers, who are the economic buyers.
 - And as the rev-ups guy, I'm gonna say
 that it is having the data and technology to support that.
 There are a lot of very good companies
 that'll work with people like Michael
 or half people like Michael,
 and they put together this pristine, amazing,
 elegant ICP on slides, and it's great, right?
 And that's definitely part of it,
 but how are you pulling information back into the process
 that the people in your marketing organization
 and your product organization
 and your sales enablement organization, et cetera?
 How are you getting all that information
 and then making that part of the way you're defining your ICP?
 There are a lot of companies
 that aren't doing that very well,
 and they're still operating from theory,
 and what they'll find is they will eventually fall
 out of alignment with the market,
 and they will see all these leading indicators
 that start to tell them that's the issue,
 and it's because they're still operating
 from a position of little too much hubris
 and a little too much of an echo chamber.
 - I kinda wanna throw out some examples.
 I'm thinking of ICPs in the context of a company
 like OpenAI.
 Do they have an ICP?
 It's chat GPT all the way down.
 It's chat GPT, and you've got some APIs.
 It's the same product regardless if you're a consumer
 or you're working in the enterprise,
 and I'm wondering if the sort of new generation
 of products coming out
 is the idea of an ICP still useful?
 - Make no mistake, those companies
 are also doing what we're talking about here internally.
 Obviously, if you are in the AI space right now
 and you are selling generative AI platforms
 and large language models and things like that,
 it's a good time, right?
 But you still need some way to be able to distribute
 and go after your market in a way that is prioritized
 like that in order to practically have all these great things,
 like great conversion rates and expansion rates,
 all these kind of lagging indicators
 that tell you you're selling it and expand the market well,
 but are also leading indicators that are truly indicative
 of how well you've set up your ICP and operationalize it.
 - Yeah, I think if you have a product
 that has no competitors and is a brand new product
 and is an incredibly effective product,
 and I mean that was the early open AI days, right?
 I think absolutely, I mean, do you have to do it?
 No, you're kind of like, look, the product trumps all,
 but the problem with that is that
 as soon as you have a successful product,
 there will absolutely be competition in the market.
 And so you will have to eventually,
 even if you don't do it at the very, very beginning,
 like you will have to segment the market,
 you will have to find your use cases,
 you will have to find the ICPs for those use cases,
 all of those pieces like that.
 So you may see early success in a pure,
 like we've got the very best product out there
 and everybody's just gonna use this product,
 but that will not last.
 It never has at least in the 28 years
 that I've been doing this.
 Like as soon as you have a rock and product
 that's selling well, guess what?
 You have competition.
 - Totally, the rubber meets the road eventually, right?
 And you've gotta figure out ways to sustainable growth.
 - No, I think that sustainable growth
 is the piece right there.
 Like you can get to one place,
 but in order to grow from that one place,
 you gotta double down on these best practices.
 - I think when you're in the growth stages,
 maybe you've got the elusive product market fit
 for one kind of customer,
 but you need to, for platform companies,
 serve multiple personas with an org,
 or maybe you wanna go a little more vertical.
 And so how do you balance that question
 as you're scaling, needing to find more customers?
 Do you wanna go more vertical?
 Do you wanna go more horizontal?
 - Eleven Labs is a great example of this,
 where they are selling an excellent platform,
 which can appeal to a lot of different potential buyer groups.
 They've defined over a dozen different cuts of their ICP,
 but they are very clear on,
 which ones they are most focused on right now,
 and what that really means, right?
 How they are thinking about product innovation,
 building content, target accounts
 that they are assigning out to their sellers,
 where they're putting salespeople geographically,
 even if they have ICPs that they've defined,
 that they know really well and they're reporting on that data,
 they might have those comparatively speaking deprioritized
 in order to remain focused,
 but still have an approach to those companies
 that are a little bit more out on the fringe
 of their capabilities.
 And the other point about this is,
 there are also a very good example of a company
 that is clearly listening to customers
 on how mature their product is in certain areas,
 and they're not overselling past that.
 They're being really careful about making sure
 that the ICPs that they've targeted
 are where they know their product
 is going to be an absolute grand slam
 in versus the areas where they plan to go to
 and they have some capabilities,
 but they know that they still need to develop it out
 a little further there before they really go hard
 at that particular area.
 So they have a sort of stack ranked ICPs, it sounds like.
 The group of companies that they know,
 this is a slam dunk,
 I can like really go along on solving this use case,
 but then it sounds like maybe it's opportunistic ICPs,
 places where they can expand and that they know,
 yeah, we can build into that.
 - And I would even add really good focus
 is more of an exercise and stratification.
 It's the way you're segmenting the market
 and the best possible companies is this small circle.
 That is where we're going to be hyper-focused
 because we know we get tremendous yield, expansion,
 just great things happen there in the center of that.
 Then it's these concentric circles out of that
 where you have others that are still very good fits,
 but they are maybe not as quick to expand
 or it's a little bit more of a grind
 to actually convert those into customers,
 they expand a little more slowly.
 And then you eventually fall out into lesser and lesser fit
 and it's like proceed with caution
 on some of these over here, right?
 So it's a very prudent way to go about it,
 a very mature way to go about it
 where you know you're going to go there,
 but at the moment, you're being careful
 because you want to be responsible in the market
 and the way you're growing.
 You want to be able to make sure your product
 is doing the things you say it's going to do
 and that you're meeting commitments
 because if you do that really well,
 then those ICPs will be absolutely open
 and ready for you as your product evolves towards that.
 - Michael, I feel like this is entirely in your wheelhouse.
 I feel like this is what you do day in and day out.
 - That's exactly it.
 I mean, I think no matter how general the tool is,
 you have to narrow your marketing and sales efforts.
 And I think focusing down on those use cases
 and those ICPs gives you an ability
 to spend marketing dollars in the right place,
 spend sales efforts in the right places,
 support the right customers.
 And sometimes at the same time,
 like not support, not market to, not sell to other customers.
 It's really hard when someone waves a handful of cash
 and says, I want to buy your product,
 but you're not my ICP.
 It's really hard to say no to that.
 But sometimes I think you need to say no to that
 because you can get pulled off track
 with customer requirements,
 you can get pulled off track
 with a customer sales effort
 that's going to lead you down
 what might be a cash rich place,
 but not necessarily a strategy rich place.
 In other words, it won't necessarily net you
 the next customer and the customer after that
 and the customer after that,
 which is way more important
 than the one customer you just landed.
 - I think we've talked a lot about use cases
 and focusing on the pain point or problem that you solve.
 But what I want to figure out,
 and we started talking about this
 when Michael was like, yeah,
 this is why you got to have a great rev-ops program is,
 let's say you get this ICP.
 How do you know whether it's working
 and how often do you need to continue refining it?
 - ICP is definitely not a set and forgetting, right?
 It does evolve over time.
 It certainly evolves when you go from founder-led sales
 into repeatable, into scaling up.
 And very often that happens
 when you're moving market segment.
 So many companies start out in S&B,
 they move to mid-market,
 they then move to enterprise,
 the ICP needs to change.
 They expand geographically,
 the ICP may be different in different markets.
 Pricing and packaging changes happen,
 competitive pressures and external events in the market.
 Impact ICP, it does evolve over time.
 For me at least the critical thing is
 you've got to create a very tight feedback loop
 with the market.
 So there needs to be a tight feedback loop
 between sales and product.
 And I think it's also super critical
 that founders, CEOs, executives at every level,
 customer success, product management, engineering,
 that they're also out in front of customers,
 that they're listening to customers,
 they're engaging with customers,
 they're understanding how they're using the product,
 where the gaps are, where they want to go next.
 'Cause that's super important
 as he sort of evolves the product roadmap over time.
 And then everything else follows from that.
 - So therein lies the problem with ICPs in the real world.
 There is a constant evolution out there
 in terms of buyer interests
 and the nature of the problems that they have.
 Your competitors are constantly changing.
 Everybody you compete with is trying
 to do the same thing you're doing,
 which is get better and better at all of these things
 like their conversion rates, expansion rates,
 and all of these other good signals
 that tell you you're doing a good job.
 Joe and I went through this experience
 when we first joined Segment, for instance,
 where you go and you have this big project
 of setting the market three, six months later,
 that has started to lose precision, right?
 It's not practical to run these projects constantly though.
 And so the challenge has been,
 how do you do it where you have a practical feedback loop
 and practical revision of that?
 You're not continuously just thrashing your sales force
 with new pivots in the way that they're supposed to be
 selling and talking to the things.
 And hey, you know what, these were the accounts
 we assigned to you in your territory.
 We're going to continuously change that
 every couple of weeks because of the ICP of all,
 no one's going to life that, right?
 - I do think there are indicators when you nail an ICP.
 I mean, I think you start to see the cost
 of your CPLs go down.
 I think you start to see your sales efficiency go up.
 You start to see higher renewals.
 You start to see those indications
 that you've got it right.
 I agree with Mark though, 100% on this.
 You can't flip flop it.
 What I tell folks all the time is with messaging
 and with targeting, like the minute you're getting sick
 of it, you've got to double down on it, right?
 - Oh, I was going to say, what's the threshold?
 Yeah. - Yeah, yeah.
 So when you're getting sick of hearing
 your same messaging or you're getting sick
 of being focused on the same customers,
 that means it's time to double down on it
 because it takes the customers a lot longer
 to input the messaging and it takes the customers
 a lot longer to understand the use cases.
 It takes them a lot longer than it takes you
 'cause you're living in a day and day.
 Tell us the founders all the time.
 Like you think about your product 24 out of the 24 hours
 of the day.
 Your customer thinks about your product
 maybe 10, 15 minutes a quarter.
 You just got to keep hammering it and hammering it.
 - I think what actually is really interesting to me
 though is how is this going to change now
 in the era of AI?
 Fundamentally, the question of what is our ideal customers
 a perpetual strategic one?
 But AI, I think actually offers huge promise
 to be able to continually evolve that
 and really micro segment ICPs.
 So you think about ICP evolving from a static document
 into a living data powered model that lives in your CRM
 where you can do continuous refinement on it.
 It helps you discover better ICPs
 but you still need to make decisions
 on where you steered the business
 and then ultimately founders and executive teams
 are going to have to make decisions on
 where they invest and then how much they invest.
 - The companies that I'm working with right now
 are plotting these AI based roadmaps
 instrumenting the central nervous system
 with all of this signal detection
 that gets pulled back in to both product and marketing
 which then gets almost immediately disseminated
 into the materials that are being created,
 the sales enablement that's going on,
 the way that you can go and present the next accounts
 to call on as a rep, who to talk to,
 what to talk to them about.
 And the revolution that's coming with this
 is a matter of being able to do this very, very quickly
 and very, very precisely, continuously.
 We're going to be wondering why didn't everybody do this
 and that the truth is it's available to all of them
 but it's a mindset.
 It is definitely the culture of your organization
 that's going to determine if you're able to take advantage
 of it with those new capabilities there.
 If you take AI out of the picture again
 and go back to the companies that have been doing this,
 the best companies that have done this best for years,
 they are tremendously well aligned across marketing
 and product, its sales and customer success.
 It's an amazing just cohesive approach
 to how to think about the ICP,
 how to innovate your product in that direction,
 how to go and prospect and sell
 and expand your customer's usage.
 If you have that mindset
 and you're willing to put in the work,
 you could be really good at this.
 >> The piece that people have been doing already
 is the actual collecting of this information, right?
 So whether it's like gong calls
 or the precision in which you can measure your marketing,
 spend in your marketing effectiveness
 and everything else like that.
 Or the customer success platforms
 or recording all of the information,
 all of those information sources
 gives you the raw materials for an AI to come in
 or to an AI products to come in and really understand
 what is successful throughout the entire customer journey.
 I think we've done a great job as an industry
 collecting all this information
 and unfortunately it's lived in silos or individual people,
 but I think we now have the opportunity with AI.
 What does AI do really, really well?
 Large pattern recognition.
 So across the entire customer journey understanding
 where your ICPs are landing and where they're not,
 that's exciting to me.
 As a marketer, I get really fired up about that.
 >> I love that because the sheer amount of data collection
 feels perhaps unique to the moment,
 but the decision to relentlessly collect, pursue,
 analyze and operationalize the data
 has been around for ages.
 All right, that is all for today.
 If you did make it this far, first of all,
 thank you.
 We put a lot of thought into each of these episodes,
 whether it's guests, the calendar touches,
 the cycles with our amazing editor Tommy
 until the music is just right.
 So if you like what we've put together,
 consider dropping us a line at ratedispodcast.com/A16Z
 and let us know what your favorite episode is.
 It'll make my day, and I'm sure Tommy's too.
 We'll catch you on the flip side.
 (upbeat music)
 (upbeat music)
 [MUSIC PLAYING]
