--- METADATA START ---
Show: N/A
Episode: Doug Burgum, Secretary of the … - All-In with Chamath, Jason, Sacks & Friedberg
Host: David Sacks
GUESTS: Doug Burgum
Guests: Doug Burgum
Source URL: https://podcasts.apple.com/us/podcast/doug-burgum-secretary-of-the-interior-all-in-dc/id1502871393?i=1000706599554
--- METADATA END ---

 [MUSIC PLAYING]
 We're here on the Celsius Galway in Sabine Pass,
 just outside of Beaumont, Texas, with the Secretary of the Interior,
 Dr. Bergham.
 The crew is giving us a tour.
 This is an amazing export facility,
 the largest in the United States, second largest in the world.
 We're going to talk with the Secretary in a minute
 about American energy independence, and the world,
 of this company, this facility, and this process
 place.
 So excited to have the conversation with the Secretary.
 [MUSIC PLAYING]
 [MUSIC PLAYING]
 What'd you think?
 Well, it used to be fantastic, but to be on a brand new ship,
 like, pretty special.
 [INTERPOSING VOICES]
 This is the first car it was taking,
 which is like, not even out of the showroom brand new.
 Yeah, look at that.
 Those are spotless.
 Yeah.
 This is definitely coordinated for you.
 I have a suspect.
 But it's beautiful.
 I think they coordinated for you today, right?
 They heard you were coming.
 Doug, they were saying in 2008, this facility
 was basically bankrupt.
 Yes.
 And this has been a development project since about 2012,
 and it went from practically nothing
 to the largest LNG exporter in the world.
 In 13 years.
 In 13 years.
 And prior to that, when it was originally built,
 because this is before the amazing miracle
 of the whole shale revolution in our country,
 and without that, this was being built as a LNG import
 facility.
 That was the original thing.
 We're going to have to import LNG to America.
 Now LNG is the number $2 export on the all-time list
 for the country.
 It's the second most highest dollar value we export.
 We went from being like, oh, we're
 going to run out of oil and gas to today.
 We're energy independent on a net basis,
 and we're on our path towards becoming energy dominant.
 I'm doing all-in.
 All right, besties.
 I think that was another epic discussion.
 People love the interviews.
 My kids here have talked for hours.
 Absolutely.
 We crushed your questions a minute.
 We are giving people round truth data
 to under your own opinion.
 What are you going to say?
 That was fun.
 I'm doing all-in.
 Welcome to the all-in interview here today
 with Secretary Doug Bergham, the 55th Secretary
 of the Interior of the United States of America.
 We are here in beautiful Sabin Pass in Louisiana
 today at the Shenier LNG facility.
 It's been an amazing tour this afternoon.
 It's a little bit windy, but it's still a beautiful afternoon.
 Thanks for joining me today, Doug.
 David, it's great to be with you.
 Thank you for coming down and seeing this amazing facility.
 So we just took a great tour here.
 Why were you here today, and what are we checking out?
 Well, I think President Trump, one of his core goals,
 if we talk about energy dominance,
 which is beyond energy independence,
 it's not just a slogan.
 It's really about how do we have the power to power
 AI in America, how do we power the remanufacturing in America,
 and then how do we sell energy to our friends and allies
 so that they don't have to buy it from our adversaries?
 And what you and I had a chance to see today
 is the largest LNG export facility in America,
 the second largest in the world.
 Yeah, I was struck.
 I didn't really realize how quickly this facility grew up
 just about a dozen years ago.
 There was nothing really going on here.
 And now it's the second largest export facility
 of methane in the world, and methane
 is seeing a massive sergeants around the world
 because it has a lower carbon footprint,
 there's demand, it's transportable.
 So there's a lot of reasons why there's a massive growing
 market for liquefied natural gas or methane.
 Absolutely, and part of the amazing energy transformation
 that I think is not fully appreciated by most Americans
 is when this plant began in the early 2000s,
 it was meant to be an LNG import facility.
 America was running out of oil and gas,
 and they said, wait, we gotta be ready to start importing it
 just to meet our needs.
 Well, along comes the shale gas revolution.
 Again, driven by technology, that technology
 of horizontal drilling, that ability to, you know,
 fractionate rock and get oil and gas out of places
 that people thought was just impossible
 that we would ever be retrieving
 that those resources from those hard rock shale locations.
 And so then this thing after the financial crisis
 turned around and began its life as an export facility.
 And now, as you say, the only one larger in the world
 is in the Middle East.
 So I want to go back a little bit
 and how you ended up in the sea, how you ended up,
 not just being the secretary of the interior,
 but you're also the chair of the National Energy
 Dominance Council.
 I really want to talk about the importance,
 I talk about it on the podcast a lot,
 about the importance of growing energy production
 in this country.
 But you're a tech entrepreneur
 who is from North Dakota, became governor of the state.
 And I'd love for you to just do your highlights,
 how you ended up there,
 what you did with respect to energy
 and also how that translated into a surplus of jobs
 and economic prosperity for that state.
 - It's been quite a journey, you know,
 starting out a town of 300 people in North Dakota
 with all gravel streets and no computers
 to end up having an opportunity
 to be part of the software startup.
 You know, grow that business, take it public,
 have a great run as a public company,
 get acquired in an all-stock deal by Microsoft,
 stayed there for seven years,
 you know, helping grow Microsoft from 40,000 people
 to 90,000 people.
 And there was 2,000 of us at Great Plains
 when we got acquired.
 There was 1,200 in Fargo, 400 rest in North America,
 400 rest of the world, we become a
 this improbable global software company
 coming from the Great Plains.
 And then when I left Microsoft
 to presumably spend more time with kids,
 retire, that was an epic fail,
 ended up in two more startups within six months.
 It was involved in three more software IPOs
 and dozens of other businesses and I mean,
 software businesses.
 And then in 2016, at a time when we were having
 an energy collapse in prices,
 there was an open seat for governor
 and I threw my hat in the ring
 and we were down 69, 10 in the polls in January,
 the primary was in June.
 Catherine was who became the first lady,
 was like, oh, we've got a great life.
 Why would we get into politics?
 Why would we get into that?
 And I assured her that we had no chance of winning
 and she didn't have to ever worry about being first lady.
 But this would be fun for six months
 to create some competition.
 But we ended up winning that primary
 and then went on, it was a good year for outsiders.
 So we took office about in North Dakota,
 you start middle of December.
 So about 36 days ahead of President Trump,
 we were sworn in, had four amazing years.
 Working with President Trump as a governor,
 there's a win behind our back.
 And then second term, we got reelected
 by the largest margin in the country of any race.
 But then I was serving as a governor
 under the Biden administration.
 And in a state where we'd become,
 we're rapidly becoming a very resource rich state,
 we had climbed to being the number two oil producer
 in the country, we had tremendous coal resources,
 incredible agriculture resources in ranching.
 And the Biden administration really was having a war
 on whether it was timber, grazing,
 oil and gas, coal, critical minerals.
 I mean, anything that had to do with extraction,
 there was a regulatory battle going on.
 And I would have to say that a part of me,
 not just became frustrated,
 I became very concerned about the future of the country.
 And that led to jumping at the national level
 and saying, hey, we've got to have a policy
 because if we don't have energy security,
 we're not gonna have national security.
 And that's what really drove
 sort of us sitting here right now today.
 - So you ran for president,
 you ran for the Republican nomination
 against President Trump and others.
 And then obviously President Trump got that nomination.
 Did you keep in touch with him after that?
 And how did you kind of work with his staff
 in his office as he was moving his campaign forward?
 - Well, we were in touch because we knew each other
 as a governor would know a president.
 But I was never really running against President Trump.
 And I think the record shows that I was really running
 against these horrifically dangerous
 and unsound, unsafe policies of the Biden administration,
 which are almost too numerous to enumerate.
 When I left office last December 15th,
 just December 15th of 2024,
 as governor, I was involved in 30 lawsuits
 against the Biden administration.
 Many of them, including against the agency,
 the Liberals that I'm now leading
 because the regulatory regime was such
 that it wasn't about regulating oil and gas,
 it was about eliminating oil and gas from America.
 And if there was some sort of false God
 around climate ideology that was being chased,
 it was like, oh, if we stop the supply coming from the US,
 we're gonna somehow save the planet.
 But there was no reduction of demand.
 The demand was just being filled by Iran, Venezuela, Russia.
 And they were funding wars against this.
 So I mean, I thought it was the closest thing
 to insanity that I'd ever seen.
 And so when we dropped out very quickly,
 I was the first of any of the other candidates
 to endorse President Trump,
 and then spent last year campaigning for him.
 - Yeah, and then there was, can I say this?
 Some rumors that you might have been in the running
 for Vice President,
 or you obviously stayed close with the President
 and his staff and found your way into this role.
 How did that process go for you?
 How did you end up in this role that you were?
 - Well, it's a, I love what I'm doing,
 and I love the role,
 because of course, as a Western governor,
 we have all the things that Interior has
 as governor of North Dakota,
 which is a jam-packed, fun job.
 You've got your chairman of the land board
 and just me and governor.
 Well, then, you know, dealing with land
 minerals and all the leasing
 and all the issues with the energy industry.
 You're also the head of the Water Commission.
 Interior has the Bureau of Reclamation,
 which is the second largest hydroelectric producer
 in the country and manages, you know,
 the miracle of irrigation that Theodore Roosevelt
 came up with.
 We wouldn't have agriculture in Arizona
 or California without that.
 And then Bureau of Indian Affairs is part of Interior.
 And that's something I had a lot of experience with
 and all the challenges that we face
 in terms of healthcare and education on the tribal areas.
 So across the whole realm of Interior,
 everything that I had in North Dakota
 is part of my job today, except one thing.
 And that's offshore oil production,
 because North Dakota, as you would know,
 is the center of North America.
 So if you're afraid of sharks,
 you should move to North Dakota,
 'cause it literally is the furthest place
 in North America from any ocean.
 So we had no offshore, but today, earlier today,
 I had a chance to get on my first offshore platform
 and see the innovation and entrepreneurship there
 that's, again, now providing about 16%
 of the oil through the America.
 - So, I mean, let's talk about the energy problem,
 the energy opportunity.
 Before we do, I think 50% of the potential audience
 of this conversation, tune out,
 and say, this is evil, there's good and there's bad,
 this is bad, exploitation of natural resources,
 extraction of natural resources,
 damages the planet, ruins the environment,
 puts carbon in the atmosphere, drives climate change,
 and they won't listen to any conversation
 about the pragmatism of energy security
 and the importance energy plays in prosperity,
 taking people out of poverty,
 raising them up, raising living standards,
 and giving access to things around the world
 that every individual wants, which is more prosperity.
 And one statistic, I always quote,
 is that if you go back 500 plus years,
 you can see, and there's all these studies
 that have tried to understand energy production
 versus GDP, which translates to prosperity per capita,
 and there's a linear relationship,
 the more energy that's produced,
 the higher the GDP per capita,
 and that's what we see around the world
 in developing markets today.
 So, I guess maybe you could just take a moment
 to talk to those folks, share a little bit
 about your perspective of the relationship
 between taking care of the environment and the planet,
 and the importance of energy demand and energy security
 before we get into the things that are going on.
 >> Well, I think you're spot on.
 I mean, human flourishing depends on everyone.
 And I think if you're talking about access for everyone,
 you just take a look.
 I mean, we could have as many as 800 million people
 on the planet, you know, shy of a billion
 that don't have access to electricity.
 And they need more energy.
 Now with AI coming, the demand for power is going to go up,
 the demand for advanced manufacturing.
 So, we're not in any kind of energy transition.
 We're in an area where we need energy addition.
 And if we want human flourishing,
 if we want to reach our planet's fullest potential,
 and if we want to take care of our environment,
 which we can do all these things at the same time,
 that even that requires energy.
 I mean, if you're worried about, you know,
 water sources will desalination,
 which we can do requires a lot of energy.
 You know, transportation of goods requires energy.
 So whether, you know, it's the clothes on your back,
 the food on your table, the transportation drive,
 there's an energy component to all of that.
 And electrifying stuff doesn't change.
 It just changes the source of the,
 we still need to create the electricity.
 So I feel like that if anybody is concerned
 about the environment, they should want to have
 it every ounce of a liquid fuel,
 and every electron produced in the United States.
 Because if you compare us to any other country,
 we produce it cleaner, safer, smarter, and healthier
 than anyone else.
 And I learned in North Dakota, over those eight years
 as governor, where we were always on the top of the list
 of, you know, cleanest water, cleanest air,
 best soil health, all of these things
 that we were able to achieve.
 And we were going up the charts
 in terms of energy production.
 These things go hand in hand, they're not,
 it's not either or, it's a plus when you can do both.
 - And we were just talking to this crew on board,
 the ship we just visited, they're on their way to Taiwan,
 and they go to Japan.
 And so if we can produce liquid methane in this country
 with a lower carbon footprint,
 then that methane might be produced elsewhere,
 which is the case.
 We have cleaner methods for production.
 And that demand exists regardless
 of whether or not the United States produces it.
 It's important that the United States
 take advantage of the opportunity
 to produce it cleaner more safely,
 and with a lower footprint,
 and build economic prosperity for us as exporters.
 - Yes, absolutely.
 So the net formula that you've just described
 is the more energy that's produced in the United States,
 the better it is for the globe,
 and the better it is for American prosperity.
 And I would say it's not just for the globe environmentally,
 it's also for peace, it's not just prosperity at home,
 but literally the two proxy wars
 that we've been involved in
 with Russia after Russia invaded Ukraine,
 and after Iran funding 24 different terror groups,
 they were funding those wars against us
 with their oil and gas sales.
 And so if we can replace their customers
 with US sources, they have less revenue.
 They have less funding, literally, to fund terrorism.
 So it is prosperity at home, peace abroad,
 it's nothing short of that.
 - So let's talk about the energy demand equation.
 The US has forecasted to increase
 its electricity production capacity
 from one to two terawatts by 20, 40, 15 years from now.
 During that same period of time,
 China's gonna go from three to eight terawatts.
 And that China forecast, by the way,
 excludes any of the Gen 4 nuclear reactors,
 the new hydroelectric facilities,
 and the new thorium, or if that ever scales,
 that they're considering rolling out
 in addition to what they've already planned to roll out.
 So in the next 15 years,
 China is adding five Americas.
 - Yes.
 - In electricity production capacity.
 And if everything gets automated, factories are automated,
 AI becomes the great accelerant of the global economy.
 China is hugely advantaged relative to where we sit today.
 What do we need to do about it?
 - Well, if you were to ask me
 what's the thing that keeps me awake at night,
 this is the issue.
 And it's so thrilling and refreshing
 that you understand the scale,
 the magnitude and the importance of this AI arms race,
 which is really driven by access to electricity.
 And China last year brought on 94 and a half gigawatts
 of coal powered electricity.
 One gigawatt is Denver.
 So they brought on 94 denvers just last year.
 That's more than all we have today
 for all of California and all of New York,
 is less than 94.
 So they added a New York and a California worth
 of electricity last year just from coal.
 They're still getting 60% of their base load from coal.
 And people, people made it,
 they stopped listing when they hear the word coal,
 but coal from an electricity standpoint,
 thermal coal is fantastic base load.
 It has, you know, all the characteristics
 to allow you to maintain amperage and voltage
 to keep a system going.
 And I think we just saw in Spain,
 you know, they were celebrating on April 12th
 of this past month that they'd shut down
 their last coal plant.
 And then a week after that,
 they were celebrating the fact
 that they had their first day of 100% renewables
 on their system.
 And then the next week,
 they were a global news story
 because people were trapped in subways.
 All airline flights canceled.
 Hospitals were panicking with a lack of power
 because they had a, you know,
 a rolling blackout and grid failure
 because it justifies physics.
 You can't run an electrical grid
 with just intermittent power.
 You cannot run with something that is based in intermittent
 is the definition of solar or wind
 because the sun doesn't shine at night
 and the wind doesn't blow every day.
 And you can have it.
 And so in America,
 we became dangerously close to that right now.
 We've got parts of our country that are at risk
 for those same kind of,
 of what I'll call the Biden brownouts and blackouts
 to happen because we over-subsidize the intermittent
 and we over-regulated all of the base load
 in an idea to, quote, save the planet.
 And all we're doing is potentially
 putting our own country at risk.
 So it was regulatory action that's been taken.
 And I've got to imagine,
 it's not just the Biden administration.
 This has to go back
 'cause this is in 35 years in this country,
 we only added 0.6 terawatts
 of electricity production capacity to the grid.
 What's gone on in this country
 that's made it so hard for us to operate
 more efficiently in terms of adding new energy capacity
 to the grid?
 Is it regulatory only?
 Or are there capital, social and other reasons
 that this has become a challenge for us?
 Well, the regulatory attack was a whole of government.
 So it did attack the formation of capital.
 I mean, you came up with regulatory rules
 that made it impossible for base load power,
 from fossil fuels, even get a permit.
 Well, if you can't get a permit,
 then you can't get access to capital,
 you can't get access to insurance.
 And then you had protest and social media
 and everybody going online saying,
 oh, we've got to exit from all this.
 And this same phenomena happened in Germany.
 I think it's very clear right now
 that a lot of that, a lot of what I call
 the social media driven concerns
 were part of SIAP's operations from places like Russia.
 I mean, it was Russia's great advantage
 to get Germany to shut down nuclear,
 to shut down all their coal production.
 And hey, we have a solution.
 Just buy all your natural gas from us.
 So Germany spent a half a trillion dollars,
 $500 billion on the air quotes transition to green energy.
 They were transitioning to wind and solar.
 Half a trillion, $500 billion.
 They today produce 20% less electricity
 and that electricity costs three times as much as it did
 before they began the transition.
 And now we have the war with Russia and many Ukraine.
 What are they doing?
 They were scrambling to try to reopen coal plants.
 They were scrambling to try to get back
 in the nuclear game.
 They were saying, wow, we overshot the mark.
 We went too far, again,
 highly subsidizing intermittent sources.
 And so it's like, I think part of the awakening
 that is occurring right now is that the greatest
 existential threat to the planet and to America
 is not one degree of climate change in the year 2100.
 Because guess what?
 Innovation will solve any challenges
 that we have with climate change, with innovation.
 And we won't have innovation without electricity.
 And actually losing the AI arms race
 that China is the real threat.
 - I do agree with you.
 I'll be declarative on this.
 'Cause a lot of people ask me,
 I started a company called the Climate Corporation.
 We talked a lot about climate change.
 I believe deeply in a lot of this climate science,
 but I also believe more deeply that innovation will solve
 a lot of the challenges that may arise.
 And there's a whole series of solutions that are developing.
 And we can talk a little bit about
 some of those longer-term solutions
 that ultimately yield to unlimited,
 free-scalable energy production.
 And when that happens, all bets are off.
 - And we have line of sight to that.
 - Yeah, and some of that could be coming
 in the next decade.
 It doesn't help us today, 'cause today we've got a short up.
 And I think one thing that, you know,
 having spent 30 years in tech,
 we never used more than 1% of the nation's
 electrical production.
 And it was because computers were getting more--
 - You mean tech.
 - Yeah, tech industry.
 The tech industry, tech industry,
 we used 1% and no one paid any attention.
 And the tech industry didn't pay any attention
 to power generation because they didn't have to,
 'cause PCs got more efficient, software got more efficient.
 And then America was rich.
 Everyone was buying appliances that were more efficient.
 So there was, wasn't ever really a demand curve
 on electricity, but then today with AI,
 the demand curve is just flying in the face.
 And when I was at Sarah Week,
 which is the biggest energy conclave,
 when I was speaking to the group,
 I said there's something different here this year.
 And what's different is the five biggest tech companies
 in America showed up at that conference
 with $300 billion of CAPX.
 You know, the big ones have got 75--
 - 75 billion.
 - 75 billion a piece, you know,
 for the top ones on that chart.
 And I'll reflect back to not that long ago,
 a couple decades ago,
 I was a corporate officer at Microsoft for seven years.
 I never went to a CAPX meeting.
 - Right.
 - Somebody said, "Well, weren't you invited?"
 I said, "No, there were no CAPX meetings."
 You know, we hired salespeople and software developers.
 And if we needed an office in Singapore or Munich,
 we rented it, leased it.
 And so there was no CAPX.
 And now they showed up at that conference.
 And I had to speak to all the executives and said,
 "Look, these guys aren't here trying to sell you software.
 They're your biggest customers.
 They need power and they will do anything."
 And the regulated power providers and some in the industry,
 I've just have never seen a demand curve.
 So it's like a collision between high tech
 and the power generation in America.
 And coming from that,
 we've got to figure out a way to break through this.
 - We just got back from DC.
 There was this Hill and Valley Forum this week.
 Every single speech, every single talk,
 every conversation in the hallways
 was all about the energy demand coming from AI.
 I don't think the public realizes.
 I don't think the broad business community realizes
 how energy hungry AI is
 and how this is going to ramp up.
 Like no one's ever seen in history.
 And by the way, we haven't yet seen the ramp up
 of robotics and automation.
 There's going to be a breakthrough in the next year or two
 that's going to unleash this additional demand curve.
 We're going to have 100 million robots in the United States
 that are all electrified.
 They all got to get charged up.
 That power has got to come from somewhere.
 So this feels like a massive challenge for America.
 Like going to the moon, fighting World War II in Europe,
 a Manhattan Project style set of solutions
 are needed to address this.
 What is this council that you're leading,
 the National Energy Dominance Council doing?
 What are kind of the top three things
 that you think unlock the energy potential
 in the United States and meet the demand curve
 that's kind of tidal waving its way across this country
 right now?
 Well, I'd say that the good news is
 that we have a president of the United States
 that understands this.
 And that's why on day one in office,
 he declared an energy emergency.
 Some folks that aren't familiar with what you've just
 described, this awareness that we were facing a crisis,
 were questioning whether we had an energy emergency.
 But as you've just described, we have a huge one
 relative to our grid, grid stability.
 We don't have enough power to win the AI arms race.
 And the AI arms race means without that,
 we lose the defense battle.
 'Cause it's not just robotics in manufacturing.
 If we're gonna have a golden dome,
 if we're gonna have any ability to defend ourselves
 from hypersonics or protect our fleet around the ocean,
 not to have them all wiped out in the first hour
 of a conflict, we have to have AI,
 both targeting in a defense standpoint.
 So you can't separate defense from AI anymore either.
 So this is submission critical.
 So with that energy emergency,
 then we have to pull out all stops.
 So back to any DC, which by the way,
 for those that are easy to remember,
 it's like AC/DC, it's any DC.
 And then we could even have a little lightning bolt
 in the logo.
 - I don't know if you're gonna get there, Doug.
 - You know, T-shirt, depth, T-shirts, with the thing.
 - I actually might make that T-shirt for you.
 - Yeah, you could.
 - I mean, I think it's,
 you gotta sell swag on this podcast.
 I think that's gonna be the new one.
 New best seller, anyway, with the--
 - You can sell that swag.
 We could fund a new energy program.
 - There you go.
 - Yeah.
 - With the, but we're not an organization.
 We're like a small tiger team
 and think of it more like a governor's economic development
 super, super team.
 President Trump is asking us to find things
 that are critical to the infrastructure
 where they're running into Roblox and then help them.
 I wanna say white glove concierge service,
 help them get the permit, help them get started.
 The capital is there.
 It's often a regulatory thing that's stopping,
 you know, like natural gas getting into New England.
 We've got, I mean,
 we're never gonna build an AI data center in New York
 or in New England.
 If the price of natural gas is three times higher
 than it is in Pennsylvania,
 and yet they're still campaigning on,
 hey, we blocked this natural gas pipeline.
 You know, I mean, everybody in Pennsylvania loves that
 'cause they'll get all the data centers.
 They'll get all the advanced manufacturing.
 I mean, we've got, you know, in Arizona,
 you've got the TSMC plant coming there.
 That's gonna require enormous amounts of power.
 People wanna put data centers there.
 And yet, you know, their utility
 is just shutting down a coal plant.
 And it's like, okay, how are you gonna power this stuff?
 And so one of the goals we have is
 don't shut down any more base load,
 preserve what we have and help, you know,
 get other, get new sources of power permitted.
 - Does that include nuclear?
 Some of the reactors, shut down that are planned?
 - Yeah, we gotta keep everything going
 and we gotta go fast on the small modular nuclear.
 And, but again, that's really kind of in the 2030s.
 So that's in our next, it's in the important,
 but it's a little less urgent.
 We need to fast track all that stuff long-term.
 That's where the solutions likely lie.
 But in between now 2025 and 2030,
 a lot of it's gonna come back to LNG
 'cause that the fastest thing we can get online
 for more electricity generation is LNG power plants.
 - LNG power plants, so that's number one.
 I mean, just to frame things up for folks,
 you know, you mentioned the city of Denver
 utilizes about a one gigawatt of electricity,
 a standard Gen2-scaled nuclear reactor facilities
 producing about a gigawatt
 and these small modular reactors,
 these SMRs as they're called,
 that China now has demonstrated five megawatts.
 They can be small, they can be located in an office complex
 or in a downtown area of the city.
 And they're designed to have redundant systems
 for safety and not having meltdowns and so on.
 Talk a little bit about the opportunity for nuclear,
 you know, you're saying the 2030s.
 Meanwhile, China's got several hundred
 that they're in construction on.
 There's clearly technology available today.
 Uranium is not hard to get.
 We have a lot of it.
 Thorium is not hard to get.
 We have an incredible amount of thorium.
 Those are the two fuel sources.
 Why can't we move faster with nuclear?
 What's the hold back?
 And why is the US so different than China
 in being able to scale up nuclear?
 - A big difference is, again,
 back to the regulatory environment.
 I mean, the regulatory environment on nuclear
 has been so burdensome in terms of adding to the cost
 and the time frame and bring it on.
 And then when that cost was put on to a utility
 and then utility felt they had to put that back
 on the rate on the rate payers, their consumer customers,
 there was in some ways a revolt
 and it wasn't safety related.
 It was like, oh, you want nuclear,
 but now my electricity's gonna cost twice as much.
 I'm not for that.
 So we have to be able to get that regulatory regime down
 and allow them to go faster.
 And of course, on the SMRs,
 once that design gets approved,
 we should be able to have essentially like a manufacturing
 where we regulate the design,
 the design is proven and proved out.
 As long as the manufacturing plant
 is producing that same design,
 then we don't have to do this stick built, show up.
 You work for a week, the inspector shows up,
 oh, this is off by one millimeter, you gotta redo it.
 I mean, some of that is where you end up
 with doubling of cost.
 I mean, you can't, I mean, some of the projects
 that have just been completed,
 that took close to two decades on nuclear
 and then had doubled the cost and doubled the time.
 But that's not economically sustainable.
 So part of it is we've got to streamline the process.
 But these smaller amounts, they can be daisy chained,
 they could be great solutions.
 And then the other piece, which you love
 about having the small mocks or hookers,
 we can spend money on power generation
 as opposed to money on transmission.
 'Cause transmission is also,
 it's really hard to build a transmission line
 in this country because whether it's a linear infrastructure,
 which includes natural gas pipelines,
 CO2 pipelines, oil and gas pipelines or transmission lines,
 those have become the focal point for protests
 because if they have any nexus,
 an 1,100 mile long pipeline could have one mile
 that touches federal ground,
 that is where the protest is gonna occur.
 - So going back to your deregulatory action,
 can you do that in the seat that you're in?
 Who can take that deregulatory action?
 Do you need Congress to get involved?
 - I've got a great partner, Chris Wright,
 incredibly talented, arguably the most qualified
 secretary of energy we've ever had,
 leading that effort because the Department of Energy
 has got most of the responsibility related to nuclear
 because they also are in charge of our nuclear stockpile.
 I mean, for the military,
 I mean, DOE has got direct defense responsibilities
 and as part of that,
 we've also got the 15 national labs
 and there's been great work that's happening
 in Los Alamos at Scandinavia.
 I mean, you know, you go around the whole country
 and we've got an incredibly talented group of people
 and the research dollars have been flowing,
 but we've got to get some of that commercialized
 and out to the public.
 So, but again, think of it,
 it literally is a Manhattan Project.
 These were the places where we did the Manhattan Project
 when you think of Los Alamos and others.
 So we've got to mobilize these government agencies
 to help us on the current,
 the current crisis we're facing,
 which is this energy emergency.
 - We should talk to Chris Wright.
 - Yes, you should.
 - And then, what's your point of view
 on the timeline for the SMRs?
 You think it's 20, 35, 20, 30,
 when you have that approved design and you stamp them out,
 it's 20, 40 or is it still?
 - Well, the fun thing when we meet with all of these
 people in the nuclear industry,
 if you were doing this five years ago,
 you'd have been talking to regulated utilities.
 Today, you can talk to venture funded startups.
 And there's at least 10 that are out there today
 that are chasing new designs.
 There's people that are chasing,
 not just fission but fusion.
 And so all of that is exciting.
 And if you think about our,
 think of us having an air base in Alaska,
 think of being able to a daisy chain,
 some SMRs there and not having to build transmission.
 I mean, the applications for the military purposes
 and for other, and then if you have distributed,
 it's harder for the enemy to knock out your power source
 because it's not all sitting in one spot.
 - Do you think America has a risk tolerance problem?
 My view is we've gotten so wealthy and comfortable
 and we have such prosperity in this nation,
 just like what happened in Europe,
 you eventually say, I don't wanna take any risk anymore.
 And everything gets regulated to the point
 that you don't wanna have any damage or hurt or downside.
 Like this is the whole thing with self-driving cars.
 Elon just put out a tweet saying,
 he's seeing one car crash every five million miles
 or something on self-driving versus one million miles
 when there's not self-driving on.
 So it's a safer technology.
 But the focal point is if it's new technology
 and it causes any harm or any loss, it's worse,
 versus looking at the calculus of the whole.
 Have we lost that ability as a country
 and how do we grant leadership
 to rethink a risk-taking America again?
 - Well, I don't know if we've lost it
 or it's just the anumeracy of being selective
 about what industry or what form of transportation.
 'Cause on the automobile side,
 again, we'll track this year
 between 38 and 40,000 deaths on highways in America.
 Half of those are because of impaired driving
 either from people texting
 or impaired drug or alcohol use.
 And apparently everybody's okay with that
 because we lose 100 people a day
 and there's never a story about it.
 I mean, more than 100 people a day.
 But if you lose 70, you lose 70 people
 in the first airline crash in 12 years in America
 and we're still talking about it three months later,
 'cause that somehow that is news
 and people dying on highways is not.
 And in a nuclear, it's the same thing.
 I actually checked on this because of course,
 we've had no deaths from anything related
 to nuclear power in our country.
 Yeah, in the instance inception.
 But the best I can find on the federal safety statistics
 is there's about 37 people that have died
 from getting angry at vending machines
 and then pounding on them
 and then they tip over and fall on them, literally.
 And then they crush them.
 - Where do you find that?
 - Yeah, you just go search online.
 But it's out there, I think.
 But anyway, it's like, so it's like if you're afraid
 of a nuclear, then I take a wide bird,
 if you see a vending machine, steer clear of it.
 And they're the same thing.
 I mean, when I was campaigning for President Trump
 and I said I was pro-nuclear and someone said,
 "Well, really, but would you live near one?
 "Would you raise your family near one?"
 And I said, "Well, I would."
 And they said, "Well, how could you say that?"
 I said, "Well, I raised them on a farm in North Dakota
 "and our farm was near a road."
 And they said, "What do you mean a road?"
 I said, "It's more risky than a nuclear power fire."
 Yeah, it's like way more.
 I said, "When the kids were out, if they were out on,
 "going to a dance at high school in Friday night,
 "I was worried about them, not on the road,
 "not about anything else."
 - Okay, so the crisis that we're in from energy
 is not the only crisis America faced.
 We're facing a debt and deficit crisis
 that's gonna challenge this nation in ways
 we've never been challenged before.
 38 trillion of debt, $6.75 trillion budget,
 $2 trillion deficit.
 The numbers are staggering, it's frightening.
 There's a lot of economic studies that show
 you can't tax more than 18% of GDP
 or else you lose GDP.
 We're at that point.
 You've talked a lot about America's balance sheet
 as a way to unlock opportunity to grow GDP
 and grow our way out of this deficit debt problem.
 Talk a little bit about what you mean
 when you say America's balance sheet.
 What does that entail?
 - Well, first of all, I love David the way you're framing it
 and I would just add the $2 trillion deficit
 means that in the last year of the Biden administration,
 2,000 billion, 2,000 billion more was spent than came in
 and coming in, we have other ways to bring money in
 other than taxes and how is that possible?
 Well, it's because of America's balance sheet.
 Our balance sheet isn't just the financial assets,
 it includes the fact that just with an interior alone,
 there's 500 million acres of surface land
 within throw in US Forest Service at another 200 million.
 - That's like nearly a third of US land.
 - Yes, and then we have 700 million acres of subsurface,
 sometimes continuous and some discontinuous,
 but we own all these minerals that are underground.
 Then there's about, you know, between two and a half
 and three billion acres of offshore
 that contain critical minerals and oil and gas minerals.
 All of that is under the federal purview.
 If interior was a standalone company,
 it would have the largest balance sheet in the world
 by so far.
 I mean, you know, Saudi Aramco wouldn't even come close.
 And then you'd say, okay, well, if that's,
 if you have this, we all know about the $38 trillion
 in debt, it gets hammered all the time,
 it's used in campaign things.
 But I was, you know, even at the Hill and Valley
 conference this week, I, without asking the audience,
 okay, how many know the 38 trillion, everybody's?
 How many of you know what our balance sheet
 on the asset side is?
 Well, nobody knows because none of the senators know
 because we haven't calculated.
 But we're working in the Trump administration
 to try to come up with that number.
 And in one estimate this week is we think just on a,
 just on public land alone, there may be $8 trillion
 of coal resources.
 And I know coal is sometimes, you know, the dirty work.
 It is, but you know, as we need to also remember
 that if we're gonna have steel in this country
 and we need, and we don't agree,
 we have to need to have a steel industry.
 We need to have for defense.
 We need to have it for advanced manufacturing.
 We also need to have a shipping industry
 that comes back to our country.
 You need steel for that.
 Well, guess what you make steel out of?
 Well, part of it, you may get out of it.
 You need, you need Coke and Coke comes from
 a certain kind of metallurgical coal.
 So if we kill the coal industry,
 you can't have a steel industry
 unless we're gonna have somebody ship
 metallurgical coal to us.
 In the coal resources around our country,
 the coal is also filled up with the critical
 and rare earth minerals that we need
 to go in this battle with China,
 particularly now with China, just in weeks ago,
 putting on export controls on a number of minerals
 that we need for doing things like, you know,
 batteries that we need for electric motors,
 for whether there's cars or home drills or, you know,
 rockets missiles.
 I mean, the magnets that are at risk now
 because we became so dependent on China.
 So when you take a look at this balance sheet,
 you know, we need it for defense.
 We need it for national security.
 But Theodore Roosevelt, who was instrumental
 in putting away these hundreds of millions of acres
 in the original intention that said this was there
 for the benefit and use of the American people.
 And it all, he also said very explicitly that,
 that conservation meant, you know, sustainable use,
 not just preservation.
 'Cause we saw what happened, you know,
 following the extremism that landed
 around the spotted owl, which is, oh, we've gotta stop.
 Not just the harvesting of certain old growth
 timbers, it killed the timber industry in America.
 And when we killed it back in the 1990s,
 then it's never come back.
 And now what's happening 30 years later,
 because those timber companies that would get a lease
 from the federal government,
 they would have the responsibility for going in
 and thinning and cleaning and responsibly managing that.
 And they would send a check to the federal government.
 We'd have revenue.
 Instead of revenue, today, we have expense.
 We burn more board feet of lumber in this country
 every year right now than we are harvesting.
 Because of uncontrolled wildfires.
 And then the uncontrolled wildfires
 are some of our biggest emitters.
 You know, in terms of CO2, you burn a tree,
 it releases the carbon.
 So again, the folks that wanted to, you know,
 reduce emissions, save the planet, you know,
 help the wildlife.
 We're actually doing the opposite of that.
 So we have to get back in the business of, you know,
 raising our lands, managing our forests,
 developing our resources and our critical minerals.
 Getting back, we have to mine again in this country.
 Mining can't be, you know, if we wanna be a strong country,
 we've gotta do that.
 And of course, oil and gas.
 You do all of those things that are just named,
 all of those involve selling a lease to a private company.
 They send a check and then they develop the resource,
 and then they send us a royalty.
 The little company that I just met with this morning
 out on the platform on the Gulf of America
 in its inception, this is a company with 450 people.
 They have sent $1.2 billion to the US Treasury
 over the life of their company.
 You know, show me a tech company that's done that.
 I mean, impossible.
 Or a lease to access that resource.
 Well, the lease, and they lease it up front,
 so they're ready to check up front,
 to have the opportunity to take the risk.
 They take all the risks.
 They build the platform.
 They hire the people.
 They do the seismic.
 They figure it out.
 And if they hit a dry hole, it's all in them.
 Tax payer, nothing.
 But if they score, then they pay us a royalty.
 And what do we use that for?
 We use it for, you know, we use it
 for paying down the deficit and the debt.
 We also use it for coastal restoration.
 You know, along this beautiful Gulf Coast.
 - You get coastal restoration with that.
 - The dollars go back to the States.
 The largest funder of coastal restoration in this country
 is the oil and gas industry, you know, here in the Gulf.
 So again, the, you know, like I said,
 if you've driven on an interstate highway in your life,
 or if you've gone to a public school,
 that you should send a thank you note
 to the natural resource industries,
 'cause they were helping to pay for that.
 But what's happened?
 If I, if there's $100 trillion on the balance sheet,
 just say that.
 And now in your finance tech venture guy,
 you could say, okay, we'll, we'll allow the federal government
 to be the worst.
 You guys can have a 1% return on your natural assets.
 That would be $1 trillion.
 Okay, last year, interior brought in 22 billion.
 - So, so we're off, we're off by a factor of 50
 from having bad performance on getting a return
 on investment for the American people.
 - I guess, you know, the assets only count
 if you can access them, utilize them, monetize them.
 We all know from a finance perspective,
 there's goodwill that can sit on an asset
 line and doesn't mean anything.
 - Right.
 - At the end of the day, if you can't monetize it,
 it's not worth much.
 So, how do you think about the target you're going after?
 Is it a trillion?
 And then when do you develop and deliver a plan
 to the American people that says,
 "Guys, here's our target.
 "Here's when we're gonna get there."
 Do you think about it that way?
 - We don't have a target yet,
 because we don't even know what the base unused resource is.
 I mean, we're trying to get our hands around,
 you know, what is our timber worth?
 What is our oil and gas?
 And that goes back to the core mission
 of the US geologic survey.
 It's original core mission was to map.
 So when we say it's map, maybe map,
 because then that can tell you, you know,
 where you're supposed to mine, baby, mine,
 where you're supposed to drill, baby, drill,
 but getting back to the mapping
 and working with the private sector,
 who's outstripped, who's outstripped.
 I mean, ground penetrating radar
 is, you know, a new advancement
 that's, you know, more accurate than seismic
 and less intrusive.
 And we need to really understand
 what America's balance sheet is,
 and some of that's gonna take some work for us
 to get out there and really survey it.
 And then when we have that,
 that's public domain, published that information,
 and that'll help the private sector
 steer where they should put their resources
 to help develop this.
 - Let's talk about mining the United States used to mine.
 You and I had a dinner a couple of weeks ago.
 You gave me a statistic, which I hadn't heard before,
 which is we only graduate 200 people
 in degrees in mining today.
 Why did we stop mining?
 Why did we stop developing our own natural resources
 and shift to a model where we're buying dependent
 and now have critical supply chain dependencies?
 What happened in the United States?
 - Well, I think there was some, you know,
 our country was a powerful and great miner,
 and it was when you think back to, you know,
 even the early 1900s, you think about
 where we were, you know, what we were doing in gold
 and silver, and then, you know, through World War II,
 and even up into the 1980s, we were still very strong
 as a mining country and a mining industry.
 And then there were some environmental issues
 that environmental awareness.
 You had some super fun sites,
 and it just became one of the focal points
 of the attack of, hey, then it sort of was,
 all of a sudden, all mining was bad
 as opposed to one operator in one location
 that, you know, maybe wasn't maintained, right?
 And so then I think whether it was young people
 choosing careers or whether it was pressed, whatever,
 but then the regulatory environment piled on
 in a heavy way to the point that, you know,
 it's just amazing, one of the resolution copper
 we're just in the process now of issuing them a permit,
 it's taken about three months
 here in the Trump administration.
 They started this process over 29 years ago.
 - Wow. - I mean, this has gone
 three decades long saga to open up a copper mine.
 And guess what?
 We need copper more than we've ever needed before.
 I mean, it's part of, you know,
 every electric motor, it's a part of all of the advanced
 stuff that we're building.
 And so, I mean, it's thrilling that we're gonna open
 a copper mine in America.
 And then some of the mines that have barely hung on,
 but are still going, whether it's gold or silver
 or others, uranium in some cases,
 along with that mining process,
 there are critical minerals that are adjacent.
 I mean, we can add a critical minerals refining
 'cause it's not just that we aren't mining
 those raw materials.
 China has got the corner on the refining,
 not just mine to refine.
 So when they're in the, you know, the Congo in Africa,
 pulling out those research rich minerals,
 they're bringing those back to China.
 We've got examples of companies in America
 that were mining in America,
 but there was no process.
 They were sending that to China,
 and China was doing the refining.
 Well, now we're literally in a war
 around these critical minerals,
 which we need for defense,
 and we don't have a stockpile.
 So part of what we're concerned with right now,
 and they said, you know,
 how do we get capital flowing back to mining?
 How do we start building stockpiles in America?
 The way we have the strategic patrolling reserve
 across the top 20 most important critical minerals.
 And then how do we de-risk it?
 You know, if someone's gonna get into mining
 and do we need like a sovereign risk insurance,
 but not because you're working overseas,
 because you're working here,
 'cause the next administration may use an EO
 to wipe out your mind.
 And so again, giving a capital providers
 the confidence that if somehow they're regulated
 out of business, they'll get compensated
 through an insurance program.
 And what about in your role administering the EPA
 looking out for environmental standards,
 protecting our environment, protecting our communities,
 there were toxic, super fun sites.
 What's the thinking from your point of view
 on making sure that we're doing this in a clean way
 and how important that is in this calculus?
 - Well, Lee's Eldon, our EPA administrator,
 is also a key part of the Energy Dominance Council,
 as is about half of the cabinet.
 I mean, we've got, you know,
 Howard Lutnik, Scott Besant, Brooke Rollins,
 you know, from Ag with US Forest,
 I mean, there's literally about half the cabinet,
 transportation, Sean Duffy's on there.
 Everybody's, you know, part of this team
 of trying to solve this larger complex thing.
 But I would say that the one thing we forget about
 when we often, there's these national discussions,
 which is that every state also has a regulatory environment.
 And my time as governor, one thing I learned was
 that there was, I never met a bureaucrat from DC
 that cared more about the land, the water,
 the soil, health, or the air in our state
 than the people that lived there
 and the people that worked for our own DEQ.
 And so when people say, oh, we're, you know,
 we're reducing head count of the EPA,
 the world's going to fall apart.
 No, we have two issues with regulation.
 One is the overreach, which is, you know,
 people going beyond the law on their original charter
 and regulating things, you know, regulate,
 when they're supposed to be regulating water,
 and I need, and a water permit should be about
 turbidity and temperature and is it the fish in this area
 going to be affected as opposed to, oh, we're not giving
 this permit because we're worried about climate change
 because the thing in your pipe is natural gas.
 I mean, that's a real example.
 That's how Cuomo knocked out a permit
 that was, you know, way beyond what the law said.
 I mean, if there was an issue with how the company
 was crossing a water course, like 38,000 other LNG
 crossings of water courses in America,
 if there's a real problem, then tell them that
 and they'll horizontally direct drill it 50 feet below
 the bottom of the river, it'll never touch the river
 and give them a permit.
 Instead they'd be like, no, you know, there's no permit
 because we're concerned about climate change.
 That's overreach.
 But the overlap that occurs every day is that the federal
 government infrastructure is overlapping with the states
 and there isn't a need to do both of those things.
 And you might, you know, go a path for, you know,
 two years, three years and get your federal permit
 and then find out, oh, that a state like New York
 is not going to provide it, or you might get a permit
 in six months in a state that's, that can efficiently
 do permitting and get all the work done
 and take care of everything, and then find out
 that the federal government's going to sit on it
 for an entire presidential term because they're
 ideologically opposed.
 When we do that to ourselves, then we have no chance
 against a country like China that is focused
 on an outcome, which is they're going to achieve
 prosperity, they're going to achieve all of their
 environmental goals by having the power to have
 all the solutions as opposed to the environment we have
 now, which restricts that innovation.
 President Trump's just finished his 100 days in office.
 Are you glad you took the job?
 What's been most surprising for you
 since you've been in the role?
 - Well, I'm having a blast, and I'm thrilled to be
 in this position where we can have an impact.
 You know, you get up every day, and it's a little bit
 like the old, you know, World War II, you know,
 Marines in the Pacific would say, you know,
 we're in a foxhole, we're in a foxhole,
 we're on a beach, the bad news is, you know,
 we're surrounded, the good news is we can attack
 in any direction, and so every day you can get up
 and go make a difference in people's lives.
 And that's, and for anybody that's in tech
 or anybody that's listening, you know,
 that poo poo is public service,
 they had to really think about the fact,
 I mean, we need people that are, as Teddy Roosevelt
 said, that are willing to get in the arena,
 because in these jobs that are really purposeful,
 you can make a difference for a lot of people think,
 but what's surprising about the job was,
 I knew that from a tech standpoint,
 because I lived through it eight years in North Dakota
 where state government wasn't up to speed
 on just basic technology and basic business systems
 and all the things that reduce productivity and create,
 I'll say agony for state or federal employees.
 I mean, we asked them to do mind numbing
 and soul-sucking work for like 20% of their time,
 because we haven't given them the basic tools
 that everybody in the private sector has had.
 And so it's not like that anybody's bad, a bad people,
 but you could get rid of 20% of the quote work
 by just bringing in the tools that are there.
 I mean, you could have 20% less people,
 and then the people would have a more meaningful,
 more purposeful job, all of those things.
 And so what I thought was it can't be worse
 than it was in North Dakota.
 And then I got into the, at least in the Department
 of Interior, and we are further behind.
 I mean, this is the land of decommissioning mainframes
 and then we could just take them straight
 to the Smithsonian to the 1980s exhibit.
 - I had dinner with a couple CIOs, CTOs,
 that have now been put in the government,
 and the stories are incredible.
 Totally echo what you're saying.
 Secretary Bergam, thank you for this opportunity
 to join you here on this beautiful day.
 I really appreciate the work you're doing.
 It's fantastic to hear that there's someone
 in the administration with your perspective,
 your experience doing this work.
 And so I just want to say, thank you.
 - And David, I want to return that.
 I want to thank you and all your compatriots
 that it all in because you're really allowing
 an opportunity for America to have a dialogue
 that goes deeper than the soundbite.
 And I think that all of you may underestimate
 the impact that all in has had.
 I know that it's a, you're influencing policy,
 you're helping people understand the complexity
 and both the opportunities and the threats
 of big things that really battered all Americans.
 And so, and thank you for being so well-informed.
 Thanks for coming all the way down here to Louisiana
 to share this beautiful day on the coast.
 - Next time.
 - Thank you.
 (upbeat music)
 ♪ I'm doin' all in ♪
 ♪ I'm doin' all in ♪
 (music)
