--- METADATA START ---
Show: The Analytics Engineering Podcast
Episode: Everything terminals (w/ Zach …
Host: Tristan Handy
GUESTS: Zach Lloyd 
Guests: Zach Lloyd
Source URL: https://podcasts.apple.com/us/podcast/everything-terminals-w-zach-lloyd/id1574755368?i=1000709767117
--- METADATA END ---

1
Hi, I'm Dan Poppy, the producer for the Analytics Engineering Podcast.
2
Before we get to this episode, I wanted to invite you to join Tristan May 28th at the 2025 DBT Launch Showcase for the latest features landing in DBT to empower the next era of analytics.
3
Register now at getdbt.com.
4
We'll see you there.
5
Welcome to the Analytics Engineering Podcast, featuring conversations with practitioners inventing the future of analytics engineering.
6
In this season of the Analytics Engineering Podcast, I'm digging deep into the world of developer tools and databases.
7
As a data practitioner, I use developer tools all the time, but I often feel like an outsider when doing so.
8
I know how to use the command line, but I don't actually know what Bash is or how it's different from ZShell.
9
I know how to ship a Docker image, but I don't know how Docker itself does its magic.
10
And I'd like to know how things work.
11
Maybe you do too.
12
In this episode, I talked to Zach Lloyd, founder of Warp.
13
Warp is a terminal built for the modern era, including for agents.
14
We get into the history of terminals all the way back to green screens and trace that history to the present.
15
In the process, I learned the difference between terminals and shells, the landscape of different options, and where the ecosystem is headed.
16
It's fascinating to think that in a text-based world of generative AI, the terminal could re-establish itself as the control center for all of your computer usage.
17
Text in, text out.
18
Without further ado, let's get into it.
19
Zach Lloyd, welcome to the Analytics Engineering Podcast.
20
Thanks for having me.
21
It's great to be here.
22
We are going to dive into a topic that I certainly love.
23
It's a topic that I love, but one that I don't think that I have spent a lot of time thinking about over the course of my career: terminals.
24
I am fascinated to learn more from you on this topic.
25
But why don't you, as a kind of an intro, why don't you say a little bit about the product you're building, where the idea came from, and where you folks are at today?
26
Sure.
27
So the product is called Warp.
28
The idea is to reimagine the command line to make it more approachable, more powerful, more useful for developers.
29
The genesis came from, I was looking at tools that I regularly use as a developer, and I've been a software engineer for over 20 years now.
30
Don't sigh before you say that.
31
That's sad.
32
It's surprising.
33
I don't know how much longer I'll be one, but yeah, I've been a developer for a very long time, and I've always used the terminal.
34
And I've never quite understood why it works the way that it does.
35
And for a long time, I would consider myself a sort of like minimal, like learn the minimum amount I need in order to do my job okay in the terminal.
36
Yeah.
37
And then Google and Stack Overflow the rest, right?
38
Yeah, or like, you know, more commonly for me, it's like bug someone else on my team when I have some Git problem or, you know, I want to get it set up so I can see the status of the Git branch, like the really, really basic stuff.
39
So I don't know, when I was thinking about what I wanted to work on coming out of, actually, I had founded another venture-backed startup.
40
I was looking at tools that I frequently use that I thought could, you know, if you were to improve them, could potentially have a big impact.
41
And then, I bet I could get a lot more out of this tool if it worked more like a modern app.
42
I do think there, you know, a lot of times the best developers that I worked with in my career were really good at using it.
43
And it seemed like a thing where if you could make the interface more approachable, you know, like a less steep learning curve, that you could really unlock a lot of productivity for software engineers.
44
And so that was the genesis of it.
45
And how long ago was that?
46
That was like five years ago.
47
Okay.
48
That was like five years ago.
49
And the initial idea for the product coming out of the gate was like, let's just reimagine the interface.
50
And that's what we spent sort of the first year and a half, two years working on.
51
And, you know, it was like, honestly, it was like simple things.
52
It was like, why not be able to use the mouse to position your cursor when you're editing the terminal command?
53
Or why, you know, why not make it so you don't have to do a bunch of like RC file configuration in order to get completions and see what Git branch you're in?
54
And why not make it easy to select all of a prior command's output for copy-paste?
55
And so really just like very basic things around the UX of the command line was where we started.
56
It's not where we've ended.
57
Like the product today is, I conceive of it much more of like an interface for asking AI to do things for you.
58
So when LLMs came out, we pretty quickly realized like, hey, this is a really, really big enabling technology for using the terminal.
59
Because the hardest things about using the command line are like...
60
It's like remembering what all the commands are, it's doing multi-step workflows, it's debugging crazy errors you see, and LLMs can just do all of this stuff.
61
And so today, what Warp is, it's really like a natural language interface into doing anything you want to do in the command line, which really is like anything you can do as an engineer.
62
Meaning like you can tell Warp to set up projects, you can tell it to write code, you can tell it to debug production.
63
So that's what the product is today, but that is not how it started.
64
It started as like, let's try and make the terminal a much more usable tool.
65
Gosh, when you're talking about mouse insert points and copy-paste, I immediately want to go right there.
66
But let's start at the beginning.
67
There's, I think, kind of two big concepts here.
68
There's the concept of a shell and the concept of a terminal.
69
I want to start with the concept of a shell.
70
Can you define that term?
71
Like, what is a shell?
72
Yeah, so think of the shell as like a program that takes text in, parses it as like, usually it's like an interactive command that you want to run, and then invokes a program on the user's behalf.
73
And then that program will also be text-based, will have text-based output, and it'll pipe that text-based output as output back.
74
And you can run the shell in like interactive mode, or you can think of the shell as like, you know, multi-step kind of command interpreter.
75
So you can write scripts where it will do multiple of these things in a row.
76
The terminal, which I assume you're going to ask, what's the difference, the terminal.
77
So when I'm using a terminal, I am today, I think Mac has steered me towards using Z Shell.
78
Before that, I think I was using Bash, Born Again Shell.
79
Some of these shells, I think I was looking it up.
80
I think Born Against Shell was 1989.
81
I mean, like, that's a minute ago.
82
And they exist in this kind of, and I'm a little out of my depth here, but they exist in this world of the new ecosystem.
83
So like CP copy is a, I think, a program.
84
It's a program.
85
Like, it's a little weird to think about copy as a program, but everything that you type in a shell, or like the first thing that you type is, I think, a program.
86
And so, like, what parts of this are the shell itself versus like, like, so let's say that I'm in Z shell and I move over to Bash.
87
Is my CP program the same?
88
Great question.
89
I think that there's like some subtlety here.
90
So, yeah, usually the first thing, the first part of the string that you type into the shell is the program name.
91
Some of these programs are so simple, like HCP or LS, that I think they're called what's like a shell built-in.
92
And so the shell itself won't like fork a new process and like run it as a program.
93
I'm sure, by the way, just as a caveat, I'm going to say several things on this podcast that are not 100% right.
94
And just I'm going to the extent of my knowledge here, too.
95
But yeah, there's a distinction between these things that are built-ins, which, you know, it's not worth the overhead of spawning a process.
96
And the shell program, the shell itself might as well do that for the user.
97
But the general thing is the shell will parse the first thing that the user types as an executable.
98
It'll kind of look along the path typically, find that executable, and then launch it as its own process.
99
And the shell's job is to basically parse that string where the user is entering the command, which is the program name plus some set of arguments, and figure out then how to call one of these programs.
100
Got it.
101
And this is a fairly simple thing.
102
Parsing a string of text and calling a program with arguments.
103
Is the simplicity of this, which is very Unix in nature, why there's been so little change in this world for so long?
104
Like it's a simple building block.
105
Does software engineers have battles over like, screw you, bash, I'm a Z shell all the way?
106
Like, is that an idea?
107
That's a thing, for sure.
108
When people argue about that kind of stuff, like, what are the things that they are arguing about?
109
It's a good question.
110
I mean, so these shells have different features.
111
They have different syntaxes.
112
They give you different stuff out of the box.
113
So how do they differ?
114
So they might differ in the way that they support completions.
115
They have different completion specs.
116
And completions, what I mean by that, is a thing where you're typing a command, then you hit tab, and it shows you what are all the choices for files that could go here.
117
They have different configuration options.
118
They might support different things when it comes to piping and multitasking and running programs in the background.
119
There is a sort of like standard around this with the base program.
120
Yeah, they almost always ended in like an SH.
121
So if someone says like ZSH, bash, fish, there's a CSH, there's a corn shell, there's like all these things, they ended in SH.
122
And there is like a lowest common denominator one, which is supposed to be, I think, like the most common thing.
123
It should be on every like Linux or Unix distribution called SH, which has the smallest feature set.
124
But yeah, generally these shells have different feature sets.
125
They have different licenses as well.
126
Oh, interesting.
127
So like, I actually think that that is the reason that the Mac default switched from bash to ZSH was because of it may have been like a GPL license thing.
128
I forget the exact reason, but they have different licenses too.
129
Different amounts of usability, that type of thing.
130
Got it.
131
But fundamentally, they're all abstractions over the operating system that allow you to call programs.
132
It's not like one shell or another shell is or is not compatible with a particular program.
133
Like it's built to run on your operating system, and then you can run all the other programs on your operating system.
134
Yeah, that's right.
135
Here's a maybe a silly question or an opportunity for you to wax poetic.
136
We've talked a little bit about the history and how far back some of this stuff goes.
137
Terminals overall significantly predate any kind of graphical user interface.
138
And if you would have believed Windows marketing in the 90s, graphical user interfaces were the newest thing and they'd take humanity into the next era of enlightenment and no one would ever need to type into their computer again.
139
And yet, what do you know?
140
Many, many humans, many smart humans still choose to interact with their computers in a way that is not actually that different from the way that you would interact with a computer, you know, 40 years ago.
141
What is so lasting about this text-based interaction modality?
142
Yeah, it's a great question.
143
There are a few things.
144
So, first of all, for the majority of the world, I think the Windows people were right.
145
So, it's really we're talking about developers, systems administrators, people.
146
It's like the terminal attracts a pretty technical group, and then also it attracts people who are technical hobbyists.
147
The unique thing, so one thing is like when you're using a command line, it's much easier to write a command line app than it is to write a GUI app.
148
So, on like the creation side, every hello world program that's written is just a terminal app.
149
It's just much easier to write something that outputs text than it is, something that draws to a screen and buttons and has all sorts of different states.
150
It's super simple.
151
It's also like a, interestingly enough, it's like an infinitely flexible interface in that you can have an infinite number of parameters and options and stuff that go into running a command line program, and you would have a really hard time making a GUI that supports an infinite number of.
152
And so, like, you know, when I was at Google, for instance, you know, all the servers in the world are just running command line apps.
153
And one nice thing is like you can just configure them all by passing in like hundreds of these flags and command line arguments for configuring how they work.
154
So that's another thing.
155
There is a sort of universality to the text-based interface where these programs can all interoperate, which is really interesting.
156
So this goes back to like Unix philosophy of like, hey, you can cat one program, you know, print it to the screen and then run that through another program that like filters out lines and then run it through another program that like searches for files that match that.
157
And so there's this cool composability aspect for running command line apps.
158
There's a.
159
It's very weakly typed, but it's infinitely flexible, right?
160
Exactly.
161
Yeah.
162
So text gives you.
163
And by the way, so people have tried making shells that are more strongly typed.
164
And I'll talk about that later.
165
Yeah.
166
Okay.
167
PowerShell, for instance, on Microsoft has real types and gives you objects to kind of an aside.
168
The other thing is it's scriptable.
169
And so if you're working in a, if you are a programmer and you know how to program, you can automate your own workflows with it, which is super cool.
170
So if you find yourself doing something over and over, these are programming environments.
171
And so you can just make a little script that says, here's how I do this.
172
And all of a sudden you've automated it.
173
And so all of those things are nice advantages over GUIs.
174
There's this other advantage of like, like servers that are running the internet don't even know that they have like graphics cards or whatever.
175
They don't need to run graphical programs.
176
And so, you know, the whole internet is just running on like a text in, text-out paradigm when it comes to HTTP.
177
And so, you know, it's all just running command-line apps.
178
So, Docker, anything you package up into Docker and ship off is a series of command-line apps.
179
So, it's very, very useful for a lot of the things that programmers build.
180
You wanted to go here earlier.
181
Let's open the door on terminals.
182
My very naive understanding, and I would love you to expand on this, is that a terminal is really just an interface that runs a shell.
183
And it is like almost your, you know, I actually didn't even realize this, but it turns out that I have for a long time been using iTerm2, which I just learned in preparation for this is over 20 years old.
184
Had never even thought about when iTerm2 first came out.
185
But I don't even think about a terminal as having features.
186
I think about the shell as having features.
187
So, what is the set of things that a terminal does that are not totally determined by the shell?
188
So, that's a good description.
189
The way to think about the terminal is that it was a piece of hardware, which basically had two parts.
190
It had a keyboard, so you could send characters into the shell, and it had a display where you could that just rendered characters, so it would render characters in a grid.
191
And when you open up the terminal app, let's just say you're not using warp or something like that, you're using iTerm or the stock terminal app, you're opening a GUI app that was built on your Mac to emulate this piece of hardware that's not made anymore, right?
192
That's what it is.
193
So it's like, and so it has a similar set of features that that hardware might have, but like a little bit more.
194
And so terminals can have themes, terminals can support different control characters.
195
And so there is this sort of meta language spoken between the shell and the terminal where, like, for instance, like if you're using like Emacs or Vim or something complicated, the shell or the pro more accurately, the program the shell is running is sending back these meta characters that are not principal characters on the screen, but they're characters that are telling the terminal like where to position the cursor or where to draw things, that type of stuff.
196
So you could almost think of it as like a very primitive graphics API, except it's a little bit more than graphics.
197
And so terminals support different versions of that.
198
Some terminals support things for like rendering like bitmapped images.
199
So there's different levels of support.
200
But by and large, like you'll hear the expression like dumb terminal.
201
And the idea is that most of the sort of like heavy lifting is done in the shell and the terminal is this like character rendering layer.
202
Okay, I love that.
203
That maps to my mental model as well.
204
Really for any shells and terminals are interoperable.
205
It's not that because I'm using iTerm2, I can or cannot use one shell or the other.
206
They all work with all of them, roughly.
207
Yeah, basically.
208
Okay.
209
And the thing that you have done at Warp is you have said, screw this, I am tired of terminals being the same old thing for multiple decades.
210
They should look different.
211
And this is probably the first episode where I felt like maximally limited by the audio format, because I want to be able to show folks what your interface looks like, but it is like not that similar to what a classical terminal experience looks like.
212
Can you describe to somebody who has been using iTerm for a long time, describe what it looks like to use Warp?
213
I guess just to describe it first, it looks more like a chat interface a little bit.
214
So you have a sort of input area with a blinking cursor, which is not too dissimilar from what you might see in like Slack, something like that.
215
And then the other part of it is as you run commands in Warp, you see something that maybe looks a little bit more like a notebook in the sense that every command's output is logically grouped together in what we call a block.
216
As opposed to this big kind of non-stop, just stream of text.
217
That's what it is in normal terminal.
218
Non-stop stream of text.
219
You don't, there's the, in a typical terminal, the terminal has no idea what text is related to what command.
220
Think of just like it's a character graphics renderer.
221
And so all that knowledge of like what characters have to do with what command you ran is like encapsulated in the shell.
222
In Warp, can you also use multiple different shells?
223
You can use, we support four shells.
224
We support bash, fish, CSH, and PowerShell for Windows.
225
So there's a little bit of work.
226
Like theoretically, we could support every shell.
227
We basically picked what we thought covered, like 97%.
228
So you have to do some kind of integration with the shell so that you can kind of pick up that context.
229
That's exactly right.
230
So we basically integrate with the shell so that it can, so that we know at the terminal layer what's what, essentially.
231
So that the output looks very different, then the input works quite differently too, in that when you're typing in a normal terminal, like every character is kind of going into the shell and then coming back.
232
It's like being echoed.
233
And the shell sort of maintains all of the state of that editor.
234
In Warp, we move that to the terminal as well.
235
And we do that because we want to give the user an editing experience that's much more like what they would get in a code editor.
236
And so we want to give them syntax highlighting.
237
We want to give first-class mouse support.
238
You know, we want it, like literally when you double-click on something and it selects text in a terminal and you hit paste, it pastes it at the end of the buffer instead of replacing what you have pasted, which is no one wants that in my experience.
239
And so we're trying to give like the normal interactions that people expect in every other app.
240
I love that you made this comment about the text editor that you would expect in your editor.
241
Because when I look at Warp, the thing that immediately stands out to me is that there is this weird, I think most software engineers that want to use some type of AI capabilities today are using three interfaces that are all fundamentally text-based.
242
They're using their editor, they're using their terminal, and they're also using some type of chat experience.
243
Now, maybe sometimes there's a more coupled than others, but there's kind of often three, and they're all text-based.
244
When I look at Warp, I think, gosh, there's this like weird blending here that's happening where like I no longer fully understand, is the world that you imagine that everyone will stop using VS code and their terminal will be like where they write all their code?
245
Like, how does this work?
246
This is a great question.
247
So it does seem a little crazy that we have three different interfaces that are all kind of text-oriented, right?
248
Yeah, so here's my vision of this.
249
I think we're moving to a world where rather than doing editing by hand or writing commands by hand, the primary way that developers do their job is by like telling the computer what to do.
250
And so that means if I want to make a code change, I'm not like popping open VS Code or cursor and like opening up five files and finding the right spot and typing code.
251
I'm just like saying, I'm describing the change that I want, and the LLM or AI or an agent, whatever you want to call it, is doing as much of that as it can and then sort of looping the developer in when.
252
So, my vision is we're moving to a world where it's like the developer's job is going to be telling the computer what to do.
253
And I think, putting aside whether or not it's through a terminal or an IDE or through ChatGPT's desktop app or whatever, I feel like the interface that needs to exist is one that is geared towards me coming in as a developer and being like, fix this bug, and then in parallel, being like, look at this feature that's described in this ticket and help me start on that.
254
And then, maybe in parallel, help me understand this error that I'm seeing in production.
255
And you sort of have like a bunch of these tasks that you're managing.
256
And when those tasks kind of need your help, you step in and help them.
257
But for the most part, they're sort of running.
258
And your job as a developer has gone from like typing all these commands manually or writing all this code manually to sort of like supervising what these, I'll call them agents for lack of a better term, are doing and helping them do the job.
259
That's like what I think the next evolution is.
260
Like, I think that's in the next, honestly, next year, year and a half, two years.
261
I think beyond that, I don't really know.
262
I think it kind of could get crazy.
263
It depends on the rate of progress of these models.
264
And then, as far as where this is done, I kind of think it's not necessarily done in the IDE.
265
I think it's like someone's got to build the app that has the right form factor for doing that style of work.
266
I'm biased.
267
This is what we are trying to do.
268
And in fact, I think it's very likely that we will stop calling work a terminal, even though it's like, that's our DNA.
269
That's what we started at.
270
We didn't talk about this ahead of time, but if you've got a product marketing position open, I'm ready.
271
But yeah, that's a vision, and that's what we're building towards.
272
It's just like a great interface for telling your computer what to do as a developer and like managing it as it does it.
273
It is really fascinating.
274
I stepped into this conversation without a tremendous amount of knowledge of this space.
275
But when we talk about the kind of convergence of these different things, it really echoes for me in many other conversations that I'm having right now, where AI is so disrupting the boundaries that we had had for often multiple decades of the different classifications of developer tools, how work gets done.
276
And you see all these lines blurring, and it's not exactly clear what the new lines will look like, or even like if there will be lines, or if we're all just going to be interacting with text from here on out, and there's just one giant tool, and Sam Altman rules the whole world.
277
I don't actually believe that.
278
But it is fun to be in the mix of this big kind of shake-up that is happening.
279
So fun.
280
I love what we're working on.
281
I don't know if there is a question coming out of this, but just like, I think it is the most interesting time.
282
As far as like, you got developed this, did you?
283
Was this very clever?
284
No, I don't know.
285
I think we got, I think, just like it's kind of interesting and lucky that this change happened while we had already been starting to, you know, try to innovate on the interface of the terminal because it ties in super well.
286
It actually provided our business model, which again, like our original business model was going to be around team collaboration.
287
And we do still have like some business around that.
288
But like it just is like this whole new market emerged while we happen to be trying to rebuild this one foundational dev tool.
289
And I don't think anyone knows like where this is going to land.
290
Like the like the strongest traction right now, by the way, is definitely in the IDE and it's with you know, it's with completions.
291
I don't know if you use like cursor, winsurf, co-pilot, any of those.
292
That's like, that's like, to me, the sort of like V0 of like really helping developers with this technology.
293
But I think the V1 hasn't really arrived yet.
294
And that's more like you tell the computer in English what you want it to do.
295
You see some of this like with Bolt and Lovable and these prompt to app things.
296
And you see some of it also in like Cursor Composer and WinSurf has like an agent feature.
297
And what's interesting is those agent features in the IDE are basically just chat panels.
298
They're kind of converging towards like terminal interfaces.
299
With the ability to nicely interact with the tabs that are open.
300
Yes.
301
But the interface themselves, the interfaces themselves are on the right-hand side of the screen.
302
Yeah, they're chat panels.
303
And so, you know, one way of thinking about, again, I don't know how much you want to talk about Warp, but it's like we're trying to invert that paradigm so that the terminal or like at least this log of what you're doing is the primary interface and the code blocks and code changes and stuff just are rendered in line.
304
So you get like this log of what the agent is doing.
305
One of the things that IDEs have for the last couple decades been pretty good at is language features that are very particular to a certain language.
306
And I think maybe a decade ago that Microsoft released the language server protocol and that now runs via the VS Code ecosystem.
307
There is a lot of niceness in the IDE world that is not AI related.
308
Totally.
309
Are you trying to also bring those kind of like language features into the terminal?
310
I just heard you trying to do that with the kind of like shell layer, but are you doing that with the language layer too?
311
Yeah, so this is an interesting question for us.
312
So the short answer is yes.
313
So we've built a code editor inside Warp, and the main way that it surfaces, like a good use case, would be like I would tell Warp, hey, can you build this new UI component into my app?
314
And then the Warp's agent would be like, sure.
315
And then it would display a diff inline in the terminal session.
316
And that uses an editor component that we've built.
317
And so we're bringing things into that, like LSP, and like what we think of as the kind of 80% features that someone really needs if they have to fall back to a hand coding experience.
318
But one of the product challenges that we have is like, how much do we invest in those types of like edit-by-hand things?
319
Yeah.
320
Yeah, right.
321
If you don't believe that that is primarily the way that people will interact with code in the future, then how much do you want to invest it in?
322
I don't know.
323
Like, a really interesting kind of proof point here is Cloud Code.
324
And, you know, what OpenAI just released their Codex CLI, and there are these terminal-based coding platforms.
325
Have you played with any of these?
326
You familiar with them?
327
So you should check.
328
Cloud code is very interesting because it's an Anthropic's coding product.
329
It runs, it's purely a terminal app.
330
So you run it within the terminal.
331
And it's all prompt-driven.
332
So you basically are like, you describe a bug you want fixed, and then it tries to fix it.
333
And there's zero editing, is what's really fascinating about it.
334
So they have like zero hand editing, code editing features.
335
I don't know what the traction is, but it's interesting in terms of the form factor to me of like, hey, they're like launching something which has no editing, which is wild.
336
I'm looking at the docs now.
337
Is their goal to have users use Cloud Code directly, or is it to be able to enable folks like you to build the coding experiences on top of Cloud?
338
It's the former.
339
It's like.
340
Oh, interesting.
341
It's their at least initial take, and who knows, maybe they'll launch an IDE too, but it's their initial take of forming a direct developer relationship rather than having people use Claude just through tools like Warp and Cursor, where Claude is the underlying model.
342
So we already are able to use Claude via API.
343
That's like our main, of course, our main coding model right now.
344
It's very fascinating.
345
The thing I keep coming back to as we're talking is that you go up the stack in terms of which of these experiences the one that has the biggest, I don't know, window, scope, whatever.
346
And moving, you know, originally when the large language models became decent at writing code, the mechanism that people would have is they would like bring over some small set of their code.
347
They would paste it into Chat GPT.
348
This is the first way of doing it.
349
Yep.
350
Right.
351
Like fix the bug, whatever.
352
And so, but that has such a limited context in what you're doing, which can maybe help you a little bit tactically.
353
And that's when you got all these developers that were super grumpy.
354
They're like, ah, it doesn't work.
355
This doesn't save any time.
356
Blah, blah, blah.
357
And then you have the next thing, which I think is cursor is a real poster child of.
358
You bring it into the editor, and you give it the context of the editor.
359
And all of a sudden, you know a lot more stuff.
360
And maybe you make the thing more useful in the process.
361
But if what you're saying is true, that the modality that we will end up at is tell your computer what to do, the biggest box to operate in is the terminal.
362
Like the terminal, maybe you're editing files.
363
Maybe you're not.
364
Maybe you're like just giving commands to spin up servers.
365
It's like literally whatever.
366
And so that is an interesting jumping off point to say maybe AI belongs here and not in the editor that's a big part of the thesis is that the terminal has a couple advantages in that one it's inherently cross-project right so it's like it can work across all your things whereas the editor is very you're doing one thing one git repo and then the other thing about the terminal is that it's very across the entire development lifecycle from like setup to code to push to production to debug to monitoring to firefighting and all that so i don't know again i'm biased here but that's why i think the terminal is a really really interesting wide space to apply this you can go one step wider by the way which is you can go computer use meaning like you could have computer vision like doing your browser tabs and i'm less of a believer in that but nobody's really doing actual computer use right like they're they're doing use a browser yes like open ai's operator is not actually computer use it's browser use i don't is that true i know that they have the browser use but i thought they also had like maybe i'm wrong maybe i'm wrong like a full-on like click all the buttons in your operating system type okay i think that's interesting for certain types of knowledge worker tasks it's the most general it feels like so the thing that i i don't like about it is i do think that you know agents are going to be much more effective if they have tools that that are not built for humans like they have just different capabilities fundamentally than humans they can digest a lot more information they can think a lot more quickly they don't it's a very inefficient interface to do it that way and so right interpreting pixels versus just like text it seems like for certain things, text is what you're going to want.
367
It's not as general, but still pretty general.
368
One of the interesting characteristics of terminals is that they're different than many developer tools in that maybe they're similar to editors in this way, but they're different than like Docker or Terraform or your use of Rust.
369
An individual developer can choose what terminal to use regardless of what the person sitting to their right uses.
370
For sure.
371
Yeah.
372
How does that impact how people think about adopting terminals or how are you thinking about your business in that way?
373
Great, great point.
374
Terminal is viewed as a tool of choice for developers.
375
Like the CIOs care at all.
376
Yeah, they could care less, right?
377
They don't.
378
And so the way the business works is really like a bottoms-up adoption motion.
379
Editors, by the way, are in a similar camp in that, like, some people want to use NeoVim, some people want to use IntelliJ.
380
If you try to, as a like engineering director or VP of engineering, mandate the use of an editor, I think you're going to have a lot of like very unhappy people.
381
And the same is.
382
It's like a cause of churn, like employee churn.
383
Yeah, people will leave if they can't choose their tools.
384
And so we don't try to do like a top-down sales motion.
385
Our go-to-market motion is like try to get individuals to love the tool.
386
Try to get a bunch of them using it and paying for it at companies to the point where it makes sense.
387
Like we make money off of individuals paying and small teams paying, but like we also would like enterprise.
388
And so, we tend to start individuals.
389
We tend to then get companies to pay for those types of features.
390
We don't really tend to go wall to wall, which is like would be awesome from a business perspective.
391
But even if our product is like 10x better, there's still some people who are like, no, I've been using whatever plus whatever shell forever, and I'm going to take a step backwards.
392
Multiple memory.
393
Yeah, multiple memory.
394
Yeah.
395
So it's hard.
396
You mentioned licenses before and how there's some maybe licensing stuff that drove Apple's decision to move to Z Shell.
397
One of the interesting things, whenever you're trying to innovate in a space that has the history that your space has, and you know, I say this from a place of like doing the same thing.
398
We're building SQL tooling.
399
SQL's been around forever.
400
One of our bets is that SQL will continue to be around, for my lifetime's purposes, forever.
401
You have to think about, you know, if you really want to change the way that people do stuff, not only do you have to be better, but you have to think about what it was that allowed the current version of the thing to be so widespread.
402
And part of that, I think, is the open licensing scheme and the way that, like, the pluggability of the layers of technology and all this stuff.
403
Is it a goal for you to kind of reset the baseline that, like, from here on out, terminals will just have a new set of capabilities, and we will no longer think of the previous, like, pure text-based terminals as like the default?
404
Do you guys have an open source version?
405
We're not open source.
406
I honestly feel there's a lot of risks too, which is why we haven't done it.
407
Like, for instance, you know, Cursor, Windsurf, et cetera, are competing with Microsoft in their own product.
408
And like, I feel like someone would do that with us.
409
Now, maybe we should take that risk and try to out-compete them.
410
There's also just like developer love and brand.
411
And if we could be open source, I think it would be people really like that.
412
And we use a lot of open source software.
413
And so there's something nice about that.
414
I hate to say this is what a terminal should be.
415
I think that one of the initial thoughts that I had when I started doing work was like, I don't actually think most developers care about or should even have to care about like terminal versus shell.
416
This is probably a controversial take at this point, but like my feeling is like from like a product perspective is that as a developer, I'm just trying to use this tool to do workflows that are important for me shipping software.
417
And so the you know, the product attitude that I've always had is like, let's build the best tool for those workflows.
418
We can call it, it's a terminal, but it's not really a terminal anymore because it's not like terminals don't write code and show you inline diffs and have collaboration platforms built in.
419
So I'm a little bit less, like, I just am not spending that much time thinking about the like, should every terminal be like this?
420
Resetting the baseline on that ecosystem.
421
Yeah, that's interesting.
422
Yeah, like I said, I think we're going to end up actually calling it something else and maybe honestly just try to make a new category of software, which is like the category.
423
We're working on a name for it, but like.
424
And like we want to be that.
425
So that's how I'm thinking about it.
426
It's really interesting.
427
I've been very excited and have written publicly about MCP model context protocol.
428
And it really just, I think, I think generally the integration points between different layers of the stack in the new AI-driven ecosystem are very, very interesting.
429
We were talking before about the relationships between terminals and shells and how shells can call programs.
430
And as long as the program runs on your operating system, then we're all good.
431
And so like everybody comes to understand these are all integration points.
432
Okay, cool.
433
There might be a new set of integration points in the AI world, which could be defined by MCP or maybe something else like it.
434
But I'd be curious, what are the ways that developers have to control their own experience inside of Warp?
435
Because that's always been such a pivotal part of the experience of terminals forever.
436
There's like the sort of customization stuff that you would expect from using a terminal.
437
So like theming and command shortcuts and that type of stuff.
438
The really interesting thing is how do you provide the context to AI?
439
Right, exactly.
440
Because, like, as you're saying, I think the quality of the experience of AI is so heavily dependent on what it knows.
441
And so, for Warp, actually, so we are supporting MCP, so we're about to launch MCP sports.
442
Okay, so you're going to be an MCP client.
443
Yes, we're an MCP client.
444
So that's like an obvious one.
445
But the really, the kind of less obvious one, but that is also super powerful, is that.
446
And so rather than needing like a ton of point MCP integrations, it's like, well, if you have the GitHub CLI installed, Warp can just be like, hey, let me see what's going on with your PR by running a command and looking at the output of it.
447
Does it like read the manual of all of your different command line programs?
448
Or do you actually provide some kind of wrapper around them?
449
How does it work?
450
It's more like you have like access to any API.
451
So for instance, Warp can use curl to get access to like, it can just curl things.
452
Or it can, if there happens to be a CLI that exists for the thing, like for instance, the G Cloud CLI or the AWS CLI, and you ask a question about your infrastructure, you don't have to set up an MCP server.
453
It can just be like, okay, well, let me do like G Cloud, like whatever, and read your logs, or AWS and see what, you know, how your service is set up.
454
So the terminal comes with all these.
455
Because the large language models like already known as the USB code.
456
They have to use these tools.
457
Yes.
458
Okay, got it.
459
When it comes to internal tools, so this is where I think we can do something better.
460
Like we haven't built this yet.
461
The really dumb thing is that it can just run the tool with dash dash help and learn the tool.
462
Yeah, as long as you stuff it into the context window, it's there.
463
It's like self-documenting.
464
That's not ideal because you've got to do that every time.
465
And so we're going to build, you could either do this via MCP or you could do it through some custom thing where it's like you could do it through rules.
466
So we support a rules concept, which is really cool.
467
Or you can just like, we're going to probably have some primitives around it like learning CLI tools specifically.
468
And so we can also just like plug that into our completion engine, do that type of thing.
469
But yeah, it's like, there's already a ton of available context because the agents inside the terminal can use any CLI tool to gather context.
470
Yeah, that's fascinating.
471
The universal integration layer, the command line.
472
Again, I don't want to overblow it, but it's a lot of stuff comes in there where it's just like, yeah, you want to read a website, sure, curl it.
473
You want to like read files, cat them.
474
You want to, you know, search for files, use find, and so on.
475
It's all there.
476
There is room for more like integration.
477
Like, for instance, if you want to get stuff from like your Slack or your Notion, I think an MCP server is totally the right thing.
478
But like for the most part, I don't know.
479
If you're in the command line, you don't even need that.
480
Right.
481
Zach, thank you so much.
482
This has been a lot of fun.
483
I've learned a lot about a world that I only had the barest of knowledge about to date.
484
So thanks for coming on.
485
Yeah, thank you so much for having me.
486
This was a super fun discussion.
487
I really enjoyed it.
488
The Analytics Engineering Podcast is sponsored by DBT Labs.
489
I'm your host, Tristan Handy.
490
Email us at podcast at dbtlabs.com with comments and guest suggestions.
491
Our producers are Jeff Fox and Dan Poppy.
492
If you enjoyed the show, drop us a review or share with a friend.
493
Thanks for listening.