--- METADATA START ---
Show: Creating Delightf… - Invest Like the Best with Patrick O'Shaughnessy
Episode: Fidji Simo
Host: Patrick O'Shaughnessy
GUESTS: Fidji Simo 
Guests: Fidji Simo
Source URL: https://podcasts.apple.com/us/podcast/fidji-simo-creating-delightful-consumer-experiences/id1154105909?i=1000710535296
--- METADATA END ---

1
Welcome to this classic episode.
2
Classics are my favorite episodes from the past 10 years published once a month.
3
They're end-of-one conversations with end-of-one people.
4
In the midst of our transition to OpenAI, we're spotlighting the force that is Fidgeemo.
5
I hope you enjoy it.
6
Here's a puzzle.
7
What do OpenAI, Cursor, Perplexity, Vercel, Plaid, and hundreds of other winning companies all have in common?
8
The answer is that they're powered by today's sponsor, WorkOS.
9
If you're building software for enterprises, you've probably felt the pain of integrating SSO, SCIM, RBAC, audit logs, and other features required by big customers.
10
WorkOS turns those deal blockers into drop-in APIs with a modern developer platform built specifically for B2B SaaS.
11
Whether you're a seed stage startup trying to land your first enterprise customer or a unicorn expanding globally, WorkOS is the fastest path to becoming enterprise-ready and unlock growth.
12
It's essentially stripe for enterprise features.
13
Visit workOS.com to get started or just hit up their Slack support.
14
Yes, they have real engineers in there who will answer your questions fast.
15
WorkOS allows you to build like the best with delightful APIs, comprehensive docs, and smooth developer experience.
16
Go to workOS.com to make your app enterprise ready today.
17
Hello and welcome, everyone.
18
I'm Patrick O'Shaughnessy and this is Invest Like the Best.
19
This show is an open-ended exploration of markets, ideas, stories, and strategies that will help you better invest both your time and your money.
20
If you enjoy these conversations and want to go deeper, check out Colossus Review, our quarterly publication with in-depth profiles of the people shaping business and investing.
21
You can find Colossus Review along with all of our podcasts at joincolossus.com.
22
Patrick O'Shaughnessy is the CEO of Positive Sum.
23
All opinions expressed by Patrick and podcast guests are solely their own opinions and do not reflect the opinion of Positive Sum.
24
This podcast is for informational purposes only and should not be relied upon as a basis for investment decisions.
25
Clients of Positive Sum may maintain positions in the securities discussed in this podcast.
26
To learn more, visit psum.vc.
27
My guest this week is Fiji Simo, the CEO of Instacart.
28
Fiji grew up in a small town in the south of France and was the first person in her family to graduate from high school.
29
Since then, she's had a dazzling career with stops at France's leading university, eBay, and Facebook.
30
Fiji spent the better half of a decade at Facebook, where she led the Facebook app before joining Instacart in mid-2021.
31
We talk about Fiji's consumer product experiences, Instacart's role within the grocery ecosystem, and delve into her personal leadership philosophy.
32
Please enjoy this wide-ranging discussion with Fiji Simo.
33
Fiji, I've been so excited for this conversation ever since Ravi Gupta introduced me to you.
34
I've so enjoyed learning about you, your history, the business, where you might be taking it.
35
And as I toyed with ways of opening our conversation, I can't help but open with a comparison between your experience running the Facebook app at Meta and your initial experience at Instacart, in part because it's going to let us talk about AI first, which I think is just such an interesting topic for any big business that interacts with lots of customers.
36
What was that experience like for you?
37
Arguably going from one of the all-time great business models to one that I think everyone knows has a much harder business to get to scale and then maybe all the benefits come at great scale.
38
Just wildly different businesses.
39
And I'm really curious what that initial experience was like, shifting gears so aggressively.
40
Thanks for having me, Patrick.
41
My pleasure.
42
I would say Facebook was the ride of a lifetime because it really taught me how to combine this long-term vision with short-term excellent execution because you never get super long-term mission and vision if you don't have this excellence in the short term.
43
And it also taught me how to build great consumer products.
44
And so I definitely brought that to Instacart.
45
But to your point, it is a widely different business with many more constraints.
46
Just to give you a funny anecdote, during my first week at Instacart, I remember joining our weekly business review, and there was a team that had managed to save one cent per delivery through a set of optimization.
47
And as soon as they announced that, the whole room erupted in applause.
48
And I remember thinking, oh, we celebrate sense here.
49
And at Facebook, let's just say we weren't focused specifically on the sense.
50
And I actually think that that culture of sweating the details, sweating literally every penny is what has made Instacart successful and has put us in a position where unit economics are really strong in a market where there's been a lot of attempts at doing what we do and attempts that have been unsuccessful.
51
So I've taken that culture to heart.
52
And I actually think that constraints sometimes create just a better business and better operations.
53
I find that people, when you set some hard constraints like you need to be profitable, you need to upgrade unit economics, it raises the bar on the type of talent you attract, the type of execution that you get in a way that differentiates the good companies from the great ones.
54
You mentioned that at Facebook, you learned what it meant to build great consumer products.
55
What does that mean specifically?
56
What's the dimensionality of those lessons?
57
I think it was a lot about understanding exactly what consumers wanted and also understanding latent demand.
58
And what I mean by that is what was the playbook at Facebook was really understanding what users were already doing with a product that wasn't necessarily built for that use case as a sign that there was something there that you could productize and do something bigger with.
59
And that has been the case at Facebook over and over again.
60
If you look at Facebook Marketplace, people were already using the core Facebook product to try to exchange goods.
61
So we built Facebook Marketplace as a result of that insight.
62
People were already posting links to YouTube to share videos.
63
Oh, actually, it might be better to create a real video experience.
64
But there was always a seed of something that we would build upon.
65
And I've taken that to heart at Instacart and really understanding what are the things that people are already trying to do.
66
And at Instacart, it translates into they're trying to figure out what their meals for the weeks are.
67
They're trying to actually come up with new recipes to diversify their diet.
68
And every time we see something like that, we just build a product experience around it to help users with the things that they're fundamentally already trying to do.
69
Again, it's a great excuse since you've, in both cases, been at a business with just enormous amounts of data, first-party customer data, interaction data, click-stream data, just so much going on.
70
And I think obviously that's an incredibly important ingredient for applying these new AI tools effectively to improve your business or improve your product.
71
And I love this question: are you ready for AI?
72
For every single business to be asking themselves that question feels quite critical because this appears to be maybe one of those platform shifts that everyone's always writing about and talking about that create new opportunities.
73
So, what does that mean for you in the Instacart context specifically?
74
And how do you think about that question more generally?
75
If you were giving advice to a company you were on the board of, what would you say is the right way to prepare for AI if you're a company?
76
In the context of Instacart, we've already been using AI for pretty much everything.
77
If you go to Instacart, search is obviously powered by AI or replacement algorithm.
78
If something isn't available in the store, what we recommend instead, that's powered by AI and informed by the massive hundreds of millions of data points we have on what people choose as replacements.
79
Same thing with how we connect shoppers to the right store and so that they get to you as soon as possible.
80
All of that is powered by AI.
81
And for us, it meant a very big investment in our data infrastructure because fundamentally, without unique data and data that's easy to feed into models, it's really, really hard to take advantage of these new technologies.
82
All of that unique data sets that we've built over the last 10 years of understanding customer preferences, having incredible catalog data so that we know for millions of products exactly what's on the shelves, at which retailers, what is the nutritional information.
83
All of that is an incredible data set to build AI experiences on top of.
84
That's really the part about the readiness.
85
Now there's a question of: okay, how do you build new delightful consumer experiences on top of that?
86
And I think the biggest change that we're seeing with generative AI is this shift towards natural language.
87
Because if you think about commerce fundamentally, it is a pretty weird experience online because you already need to know exactly which product you want, go into a search box, type that product, select that product, add it to a cart.
88
It is not how people think about their lives.
89
They've gotten used to it because that's all we could do with the tools that we had.
90
But fundamentally, when people think about feeding their families, they think, okay, I have a budget of $200 for 10 meals.
91
I have a family of five.
92
One of them has food allergies.
93
We all like Mexican food.
94
What can I make this week with all of these constraints?
95
That's the way you think about managing your family.
96
And then, ideally, you would have an engine that tells you, okay, with all of these things, this is what we would recommend for breakfast, lunch, and dinner.
97
And in one tap, you can add all of these ingredients to your cart.
98
That is a much more natural way of thinking about the problem of what's for dinner, what are we going to put on the table than the current search experience.
99
So we are really rushing towards this ideal use case of helping you with all of the questions that you have to run your family and helping you answer them in a much easier way thanks to generative AI.
100
In order to really embrace the shift, you need to think about what it would look like to go AI native.
101
And what I mean by that is having AI not bolted on on the side to your current experience, but if thinking about if you were solving the problem that your company is trying to solve now from scratch with the tools that are currently available, how would you rebuild your product?
102
Would you rebuild it the same or would you rebuild it in a completely different way?
103
Would you have full conversational experience instead of having a search box?
104
And that is really important because that echoes an earlier stage of my career where I was asked to figure out how to monetize mobile at Facebook during the shift to mobile.
105
And there was a clear contrast between the companies that were embracing the shift to mobile by taking their web experience and desperately trying to shrink them on a small screen versus the companies that were really using all of the tools that a mobile device had, from location awareness to ability to take pictures and all of that to create a really unique mobile-first experience.
106
And I think we're going to see the exact same thing with AI.
107
I would encourage companies to think from first principles.
108
With this new tool set, would you rebuild your products in a completely different way?
109
And then the second piece of advice would be: I fundamentally think that AI is going to make software development easy.
110
And that means that there's going to be fewer barriers to entry.
111
So when I advise companies, I always tell them, focus on doing the hard things.
112
It was for 10 years, we have had the luxury of creating a lot of value from fairly easy things in consumer software.
113
And now I think it's going to come down to really creating much deeper technology.
114
And even for us at Instacart, the way I see it is that we are this unique translation layer between the digital world and the physical world.
115
The hard thing that we've built is connecting to 80,000 stores across the US, connecting to 1,100 retailers, and this ability to translate your intent of cooking something for dinner into products showing up at your doors within two hours, because the physical world is still going to remain pretty difficult to navigate even in an AI-enabled world.
116
I think that insight is really fascinating that the barriers to entry to creating software are going way down because this has been something people have talked about, that there just aren't enough engineers in the world and they get paid so much and blah, blah, blah.
117
What does that mean?
118
Make that tangible for us through the Instacart lens.
119
What is an example of tackling a harder technical challenge than just simple software that's going to become much easier?
120
The point that I made about data earlier is a good example where creating these experiences on top of large language models is going to become, again, fairly easy.
121
And then on top of that, you're going to have a lot of tools to help the software development process itself.
122
But if you don't have incredibly rich data to start with, that becomes a lot harder.
123
And so for us, building a catalog of millions of items where you know the availability all across the US, where you know the nutritional value and all of the ingredients that go into every product, that is a very hard thing that takes years to build, take a lot of work, and becomes the foundation for any other experience.
124
Because fundamentally, any AI experience that we can think of in the context of groceries is going to result at some point into translating whatever a recipe is or a meal plan is into a set of ingredients.
125
Understanding the catalogue of these different merchants is absolutely critical.
126
I encourage companies to really think about what is the thing that's the data set that's going to create most value, or the experience in the translating the digital into physical experience in the world that's going to be really hard.
127
And then you can combine this really hard thing that you've done with all of the magic that's coming out of AI, and that's when you can create really amazing experiences.
128
I think in this era of software being such a great business model and the margins being so high and all these things, we've lost sight of the fact that we create software for a reason, to serve a customer's end goal.
129
And I've heard you describe yourself as a pragmatic technologist before, and I like that term, but I'm also curious what that means to you and how that term applies in this shifting world.
130
I grew up in a family of fishermen.
131
So I was always very down-to-earth, very much thinking of technology in the context of literally at the time putting food on the table.
132
So even when I joined the tech industry, I always thought about technology being used to solve real human problems.
133
I joined eBay early in my career, and I never thought of eBay as this technology.
134
I thought of it as this network where people would be connecting around their various corners, interests, and communities.
135
Then Facebook was the same thing.
136
Incredible technological feat, but fundamentally what I cared about was, oh, I could stay in touch with my family in France very easily.
137
I always go back to what is the fundamental problem that we're trying to solve.
138
And in the case of Instacart, this question of what's for dinner is a question that every family asks themselves every week.
139
That's why a lot of people consider grocery shopping a chore because it is a complicated set of questions that you have to answer before you put food on the table.
140
So, again, AI technologies can fundamentally change that and make it easier because you can align them with a fundamental human problem.
141
And I think where we go wrong is when we start thinking of technology for technology's sake and when the debate gets very theoretical.
142
And we're seeing that play out with AI right now, where you have so many of the theoretical debates on the robot's going to kill us.
143
When fundamentally, I'm thinking of any technology as having a lot of potential for good, a lot of potential for bad.
144
And our job is to make sure we maximize the good and minimize the bad.
145
And the way to maximize the good is to really anchor on these technologies solving real human problems.
146
Your personal history is so interesting.
147
I think you grew up in the south of France, you said, in a family of fishermen.
148
And I think you're the first person to go to even high school from your family, let alone college.
149
I'd love to just hear how you got this bug.
150
What was the story of you encountering the possibility of some of these technologies and these tools and riding that interest into the obviously incredible career that you've had?
151
I would say the answer will be so incredibly disappointing, but I think media helped a lot because as I grew up, I wasn't exposed to much.
152
I grew up in a small town and this world wasn't really even visible to me.
153
And a big part of my career at Facebook was spent in the entertainment category because I have a deep appreciation for the fact that media and the availability of media can expose people like me to the rest of the world.
154
And I'll tell you, I was, I think, nine or ten when I saw a documentary about HEC Business School, which is the top business school in France.
155
And I didn't even really know what I wanted to do.
156
I didn't even know which jobs existed in business.
157
That wasn't a thing.
158
I remember going to my high school counselor and asking them, hey, what kind of jobs would I do if I go in business?
159
And they were like, well, you can work at City Hall.
160
It was not a very expensive view.
161
But I saw this documentary of all of these people who seemed really in charge, really having a view on where the world should go and driving it to the lens of business.
162
And I became really interested in following that path.
163
And so initially, in my early years, it was literally just as simple as I saw the documentary, I just wanted to go to that school.
164
It turned out to be a pretty high bar, even that it literally is the number one business school in France, but I made it.
165
And then it was a game of discovery of what I didn't know before.
166
So once I made it there, I realized I hadn't traveled the world at all.
167
And again, the media made me see the US as this land of possibilities, this land where everything is possible.
168
And I became really enamored with it.
169
And I ended up doing an exchange program with UCLA, which is literally taken out of the movies.
170
It was the perfect setup.
171
And then technology came as a way again to expand my horizons.
172
I'm incredibly curious.
173
I want to learn.
174
That's the thing that drives me the most.
175
Technology was a way to really understand how we could change the world and change these core human problems, leveraging technology.
176
And that explains why I call myself a pragmatic technologist, because I didn't come out of it building my first computer when I was seven.
177
That wasn't my path.
178
My path was very much really wanting to solve big problems for the world and figuring out which tools did I have at my disposal to do that.
179
And business was one of those tools.
180
Technology was one of those tools.
181
That is the furthest thing from a disappointing answer.
182
I think it's an incredibly important answer.
183
And I think sometimes about the utility of what we do here with shows like this is for free trying to show people what's possible.
184
And I think it's incredibly powerful that media was a through line for showing you what's possible.
185
And obviously, your story is a testament to just how far that can be taken.
186
As you think about the landscape that you're now operating in with the chance to have that impact that you just described, I'd love you to explain how you see the landscape that Instacart seeks to build within and address and improve and the major key players of the industry, almost like an industry map as you see it, because it's complicated.
187
It seems simple, but there's so many stakeholders and players and regulations and all these other things.
188
And I'd love to hear your simplified map of how it all works.
189
You take a step back.
190
Grocery is the largest category of commerce.
191
We're talking 1.1 trillion in North America alone.
192
It's a massive, massive retail category.
193
And yet, it's a category of commerce that is the least penetrated online.
194
It was 3% penetrated online before the pandemic.
195
And then post-pandemic, we are at 12% online penetration.
196
And it's interesting because everybody was, oh, you know, after the pandemic, everybody is going to go back to stores.
197
And fundamentally, we've reached peak online penetration for grocery.
198
But what they don't realize is that at 12% online penetration now, we are still vastly behind every other category of commerce.
199
If you look at fashion, if you look at beauty, electronics, they're all in the 25 to 30% online penetration, which is kind of weird because I don't think you have many people who are saying that groceries in store is so much more enjoyable than going and buying electronics or buying fashion.
200
A big part of why that has been the case is because this is an industry that hasn't been technologically enabled.
201
A lot of the large players resisted online transformation until it was absolutely needed.
202
And now the big change that we're seeing is that there isn't really a grocery retailer who isn't embracing online and realizing that it's going to be a third of their business at some point.
203
That's really the big shift that has happened.
204
That's fundamentally why I joined the company, Patrick, because if it had just been an online grocery delivery service, which is what Instacart is known for, that would have been less interesting to me than this idea of building a technology platform that can help the entire industry make their digital transformation.
205
And that's why we don't just build the Instacart app.
206
We actually take the software we build for the Instacart app and we make it available to every grocery that wants it on their owned and operated properties.
207
So if you go to Sprout.
208
That's a way for us to take everything we're learning about what it takes to create an omni-channel customer.
209
and distribute that to the entire grocery industry to accelerate that digital transformation.
210
And that digital transformation isn't just happening online.
211
It's also happening in stores.
212
And that's why we made acquisitions like KeeperCarts, which are smart carts that allow you to skip checkout, because we think that grocers are going to need to really embed these technologies inside their stores because customers are going to expect a rich personalized experience, not just online, but also inside the stores.
213
That move to omni-channel is really what the next 10 years are all about in grocery.
214
How would you explain the balance from the grocer's perspective?
215
Maybe this is a similar question I talked with Tony Hsu about at DoorDash, which is obviously the grocery store wants what any business wants, which is more sales at higher margin or something.
216
And that Instacart represents an obvious sales channel for them.
217
But I guess if you could get all the same volume inside the store, I think they would take that.
218
How do you think about that balance of how you are serving the grocery store as both a compliment and as a customer and sometimes both?
219
I'm just really curious about the relationship because it seems good, but potentially maybe strained at times.
220
And I'd love to hear how you manage that.
221
The thing that's really interesting is that there's tons of data showing that an omni-channel customer that shops with you both online and in-store is more valuable, more retentive, more profitable than an older channel.
222
The thing that I work with with grocers is not telling them that it's not about shifting an in-store customer to be an online-only customer.
223
It is about shifting someone from being in-store-only to purchasing on all channels because fundamentally that shift is coming.
224
There isn't going to be a possibility to just let the e-commerce trend on the side.
225
Fundamentally, this is coming no matter what.
226
And what grocers need to do is to embrace that trend so that they really reinforce the loyalty that they have with their current in-store customers.
227
There's also a lot of data that shows that the first grocer that you end up buying online from is a grocer that you stick with.
228
And so, for grocers who tend to try to push back against that shift towards online, they're at risk of losing a lot of share because if other grocers are way more aggressive in capturing that online customer and that online customer sticks with them, that's a massive opportunity for share loss or share gain in this industry.
229
Fundamentally, I think our incentives are completely aligned with our grocery incentives because as they move these customers online, these customers become more valuable to them and we can help them do that.
230
What about data?
231
It's always been valuable for Instagram.
232
You're built on algorithms, and algorithms like a lightweight way of saying AI.
233
I think more and more people are becoming wise to how valuable data is on their customer.
234
And I'm curious how that works with the grocery because, again, if you're the interface layer, which you so often are, at least in our house, for the customer to the grocery, you're capturing data.
235
But what about the grocery?
236
Do they push back on wanting that same data?
237
How do you think about the role of data in this relationship between the two constituencies?
238
So first off, we do share quite a bit of data with grocers, obviously within the boundaries of privacy laws.
239
But also, because we power the online experiences of grocers on their own property, they're collecting a lot of data from their customers there where they can build a completely direct relationship with our customers on PubDix.com, Sprouts.com, et cetera.
240
And that's really important to them because, to your point, they do want to build that direct relationship.
241
They do want to be able to remarket to their customers.
242
And what we are doing with that is just helping them take the best technology that we build for our own app and making that available to them on their own properties, which is valuable.
243
The thing that's important to understand is that there are different types of customers for different use cases.
244
You're going to have some customer who are so deeply loyal to Kroger that they're just going to go straight to Kroger.com.
245
They're going to order from Kroger.com, and that's going to be their one mode.
246
And then you have customers who actually really want the convenience of a marketplace where they're going to get our membership program, which offers free delivery.
247
And they want to use that on many different categories, not just grocery, but also maybe doing that at Sephora, Dixporting Goods, all of the retailers that we have on the platform.
248
And grocers want to capture both customers.
249
So we have options for them to do that on their own properties and on our marketplace, which tends to be extremely incremental to their own and operate business.
250
We've had many surveys showing that.
251
When we talked last, we talked a lot about this notion of scale.
252
And I'm interested in the idea of scale around the core original business first, which is the shopping or picking business.
253
And what you've learned about that, I had a funny experience with John Collison from Stripe where he said early on they felt they were going to disrupt everything.
254
And all the old farts were telling him, well, payments is a scale business.
255
And he said, ah, it turns out payments really is a scale business.
256
And it seems to me this is a similar story where the march for Instacart, as I understand it, towards good unit economics is a story of achieving scale.
257
I want to understand that in as much detail as you can explain it.
258
How does this thing march towards great unit economics?
259
What role does scale play in that?
260
Scale is absolutely everything in this business.
261
We used to lose money on every single order until we got to 100 million orders.
262
That's a lot of orders.
263
It took a lot of investment to get to the point where we had delivered enough orders and we had enough density that we could turn a profit.
264
And the way it works in our business is basically having density of orders at the store level so that we can batch orders.
265
And what I mean by that is that we send a shopper to the store and instead of picking just one order for one customer, they might be picking two orders and then delivering that to the end customer, which saves a lot of cost, as you can imagine.
266
And that's something that's really unique to grocery because most of the time you don't need the items to arrive at a certain temperature.
267
With grocery, you can actually batch orders and pick multiple orders at once without any issue.
268
And so that's a very big driver for Linux economics and something that can only be achieved when you have so many orders within a given store that you can combine that.
269
The other thing is that scale gives you a lot of data.
270
We're back to the data topic where with a lot of data you can optimize much better.
271
We now have shoppers that have gone down the aisles of grocery stores hundreds of millions of times.
272
And that means we can tell them exactly how to optimize how they pick products in which aisle, where they should go, which products they should pick first, so that we minimize the time that they spend in the store and therefore we can be more efficient with that time.
273
All of these things combined lead to the superior unit economics.
274
But to your point, it is a game of sense.
275
You optimize based on the data you have, you continue collecting more data, you optimize again.
276
And every time new orders come in, you can figure out a way to batch them more efficiently and ultimately turn a profit.
277
I'd love to understand the difference of the role of the shopper for Instacart versus the more general delivery driver.
278
I would think of it as delivery driver, someone that's delivering restaurant orders or driving someone between point A and point B.
279
What are the key differences to understand about the people doing this work, how they do their work, their costs?
280
Any other big important differences?
281
Because I want people to understand why one is not the same as the other.
282
Our shoppers are just incredible and they are very different from the rest of the app-based economy.
283
If you look at our shopping, about 70% of them are women.
284
That's really not the case in other apps.
285
More than 50% of them are moms.
286
And a lot of what we hear is that they first feel safer doing that kind of job than the other jobs.
287
A lot more of the time is spent inside the store in the case of Instacart because about half the time is actually spent picking the items.
288
Only half is spent delivering them.
289
That's really important because that makes the job very different.
290
And also that means that the cost of fuel and all of these things that shoppers have to account for is less in the case of Instacart than in the case of other platforms.
291
That matters a lot.
292
And then the last thing we hear a lot is that a lot of our shoppers really love the customer service aspect of Instacart.
293
I know you're a user, Patrick, but very often our consumers end up inside the chat talking to their shoppers and problem solving.
294
Oh, I was wanting to make pasta for dinner, but the tomato sauce is out of stock.
295
Let's figure out how we can adjust.
296
And that requires a certain type of shopper who likes interacting with customers, who really thinks of themselves, not as, to your point, drivers, but really as customer service people and wanting to provide the best customer service.
297
And that's why we end up with just incredible stories.
298
I think last year there was a story of one of our shoppers delivered items to a house and she saw an older gentleman looking a little confused and disoriented.
299
And instead of just leaving the items, she actually reached out to the person who had placed the order was actually the daughter of this gentleman.
300
If Shopper hadn't picked up on that, God knows what would have happened.
301
We hear every day stories of shoppers going the extra mile because they really consider it a job where they exceed customer expectations all the time, which is why I'm so proud that we have these people, 600,000 shoppers delivering for Instacart.
302
Why is there not a grocery store that's a technological revolution?
303
And whether it's robots or something built into the structure of the store that just extracts out, you can program into it what you need to get out of it, and it just parcels it up or packages it up.
304
So much of this seems we're advancing forward versus working backward from an ideal solution.
305
Why doesn't something like that exist?
306
Is it just too hard to do?
307
I would say there's a couple of things.
308
First, there are some places like that that exist.
309
The reality, though, is that the thing that matters most to the end customer is: are you a brand that I trust?
310
And are you going to get my groceries delivered on time and quickly?
311
And when you think about that, the fact that we have already 80,000 grocery stores that are close to the customer, that is fundamentally the biggest advantage.
312
You are completely right, Patrick, that if we were starting from scratch, meaning no grocery store in the country, you build it all from scratch, we would likely build a mix of fully automated facilities and the grocery stores as we know it, usually, I would imagine, co-located, so that you could have your high-velocity items in the automated facility.
313
And then, for the more specialty items, you could go and manually pick these items.
314
But we're not starting from scratch, we're starting from a place where this massive store is already deployed, and that means that they are already close to the customer.
315
And it is actually relatively inexpensive to send people to a store to collect these items and deliver them to the customer compared to the capital intensiveness that it takes to recreate an entire warehouse, put a lot of robots into it, have that warehouse be probably further away from the customer because you want to have a lot of orders going through that warehouse.
316
So you have to aggregate, and that means you're going to be many hours away from the customer.
317
And that's what we're seeing play out.
318
If you look at the people who are investing in this automated model, what's happening is that they're usually many hours away from the end customer, and therefore they offer very often next-day delivery, which there is a market for, but that's not by any stretch the majority of the market.
319
So if you want to offer delivery in the next one to two hours, leveraging the 80,000 stores that already exist to do that is by far the most optimal solution.
320
It's a fascinating reality that you have to operate within and makes perfect sense.
321
We haven't talked much about the brands that are wholesaling into the grocers and the role that they play in this entire ecosystem.
322
And I think maybe about wanting to listen to my favorite band on Spotify or something.
323
If my favorite band's not there, I get upset.
324
Same thing if I go on Instacart and I want a certain brand of XYZ, that diminishes the experiences for me.
325
So how do you think about your relationship to the end brands themselves?
326
So, brands are going through the same massive digital transformation.
327
They are seeing a business that used to be fundamentally just in-store move online at a very fast clip.
328
So, they are all adjusting to the same reality of how do we go capture this online consumer, especially since we're seeing the same phenomenon we're seeing with retail brands, which is when a consumer finds a brand that they like online, they tend to stick with that brand.
329
And so, you really want to be first to make sure that you maintain your category share if you're a category leader in, let's say, in a cream cheese, or gain share if you're a new entrant.
330
The way we work with them is by offering them a set of marketing solutions to be able to attract that customer.
331
One of them is sponsored products, which is if you type in our search engine cream cheese, you can appear at the top in a sponsored unit.
332
That's very typical advertising, but also more storytelling capabilities.
333
We recently launched what we call shoppable display and shoppable video ads, where brands can have full video messages about the attributes of their products and then within one tap encourage people to buy them.
334
We're seeing a lot of momentum with brands leveraging these products, and we just released new studies that show that by using Instacart ads, brands are able to see a 15% sales lift, which is actually really massive in that industry.
335
And so, we know that our advertising solutions work, and in fact, during these interesting market conditions, what we've seen is that brands have tended to cut down on unmeasurable top-of-the-funnel advertising and put more dollars behind very high-performance targeted advertising.
336
And we're exactly that.
337
You can literally advertise right as a person is building their cart and get your product in the end of that person within two hours.
338
That's the most magical experience you can think of when you think about ads.
339
Compare that with the way a lot of consumer packaged goods companies have been advertising over the years, where you see an ad on TV and maybe they hope that a month later you're going to go into a grocery store, remember that ad and buy that.
340
That's very, very different.
341
And that's why you're seeing a massive rise in what's called retail media networks and the type of dollars going towards that.
342
We're really helping brands with that transformation.
343
And one thing I'm really excited about is that it also gives a shot to totally emerging brands.
344
Because if you're a really small emerging brand, you have just developed this one amazing product, good luck figuring out how to spend your money on TV or radio, all of these channels that are just incredibly costly.
345
Whereas with us, if you're carried at a couple of grocery stores, you can put money behind that and make sure that customers that shop online for that grocery store discover your products.
346
And then you can move your products off the shelf at retail by doing that.
347
And so that's the holy grail for these emerging brands who are trying to get these expansions at retail stores and are trying to spend their dollars in very measurable channels.
348
You mentioned AI native before and businesses needing to build AI native.
349
What would it mean for a new food brand to build Instagram?
350
If you could give advice to a new brand that said, okay, part of what I want to do is make sure we build this company in such a way that we'll be really successful on Instacart.
351
Does that mean anything?
352
Is that predictable?
353
Are there features that you notice of brands that do better or worse on Instacart?
354
It's all about tapping into a category of products that consumers have demand for.
355
I think it's a little bit upstream of just designing for Instacart.
356
It's more designing for the online consumer, which we are a proxy for.
357
And there's this company, full disclaimer, I'm an investor, but it's called Starday Foods.
358
And I love that company because basically what they've done is really thought about how do you build emerging food brands with all of the new tools that online allows you to do?
359
And what would it take to build a CPG product like we build software products?
360
And what that means is that they A-B test the name of the products, they A-B-test all of the colors of the packaging.
361
Instead of having a focus group of five people, they put that through Instacart ads instead.
362
And through Instacart ads, they try to figure out: oh, okay, when the product is this way, actually people react better.
363
When it's that way, people react worse.
364
And they optimize our products the way you would optimize a feature online.
365
And I find that approach fascinating.
366
It's very hard to do with physical products.
367
And a lot of companies are not built that way.
368
But because your push was if you were to build it from scratch, how would you build it?
369
I think it's all about leveraging all of the data that online gives you access to so that you can create a product that consumers are really going to love in a niche that's not oversaturated.
370
Can you talk a bit about?
371
Because we've got a product that's just so familiar to probably just about everybody listening, they've used it or their families used it before.
372
And you mentioned earlier that the shift towards becoming infrastructure or a software platform for other partners, grocery partners.
373
Sprouts, you mentioned as an example.
374
Is that the major initiative that you're focused on as you look forward and building on what the amazing data and infrastructure and lessons that you've already learned?
375
Or are there other major pieces to that vision too?
376
There's a few pieces.
377
The first thing I'll say is our number one job as a market leader is accelerating that shift from in-store only to omni-channel.
378
That's the core of our business.
379
We are always going to be focused on that.
380
We're still in the underpinned market.
381
So having a lot more consumers end up adopting the Instacart we all know and love is the primary mission.
382
But I think there's a lot of ways in which you get there.
383
And one of the things I talked about is going and expanding our technologies to the store.
384
And so how can we be helpful to our retailers and to our customers by developing in-store technology, whether it's smart carts, whether it's in-store mobile technology, so that the experience is much more seamless between online and offline.
385
So that's definitely something we're thinking a lot about.
386
Another thing that we've launched recently is called Instacart Health.
387
And what it is, is taking our entire infrastructure of, again, access to 80,000 stores, 10,000 plus retailers, and making it available to the healthcare industry so that they can scale food as medicine.
388
And what I mean by that is making it really easy for doctors and providers to prescribe food as easily as they prescribe medication and have that delivered to your door the same way you would have a prescription delivered to you.
389
Because it is pretty crazy when you think about it that about 87% of healthcare costs come from diet-related diseases.
390
And yet, to this day, it is much easier for a doctor to prescribe medications than to prescribe a diet.
391
For us, what we are thinking about is, hey, we've built that entire technology and platform infrastructure so that anyone in the US, we reached more than 85% of the US, can get fresh food in under two hours.
392
How can we put that in the hands of our hospital system or for doctors so that they can just prescribe food as easily as they prescribe medication?
393
And how can we enlist payers, health insurance companies, to reimburse the cost of fresh food because it would save them so much in healthcare costs down the line?
394
There's this recent study that came out that showed that if health insurance companies were funding the cost of fresh food for people who are food insecure and people who have conditions that are diet related, and they were just literally funding the cost of that fresh food, they would save $185 billion in healthcare costs down the line from people not having to go to the ER, from people saving on medications down the line.
395
And so that's a pretty major shift that will take many years to play out, obviously.
396
But we're optimistic that we can accelerate that shift as a technology player that makes it really easy for the healthcare industry to start, again, prescribing food and funding the cost of fresh food as easily as they reimburse and prescribe medication.
397
You mentioned earlier the relationship with Sprouts and this notion of being a technology platform for other retailers.
398
Can you say a bit more about that?
399
Because I'm assuming it's early days there.
400
That's a small percent of your revenue.
401
What could that look like in the future?
402
Is there a chance that a major or majority part of Instacart's revenue in the future is through that channel, that you are just the big behemoth enabler and infrastructure provider to those 80,000 grocers and all the brands there?
403
Actually, a fairly sizable part of our GMV comes from transactions that happen on our grocer's sites.
404
We monetize it the same way as we monetize our core app, which is through a mix of fulfillment and advertising, but it is already very meaningful.
405
And that goes back to the point I was making earlier, which is that you have a set of customers that are going to want to go to a marketplace, but you also have a large set of customers that want to go straight to Publix.com, which we power, straight to wegmans.com that we power.
406
And that's part of the markets that we want to serve.
407
We have partnered with a lot of grocers to make sure that the technology that we build and perfect with our marketplace, knowing that we reach millions of customers, we can take all of these innovations and put that on their own properties.
408
A good example, by the way, is ads, where I was talking earlier about this massive trend towards brands wanting to spend on retail media.
409
And that's a massive opportunity for grocers to turn their e-commerce website into advertising platforms.
410
But that requires a massive investment in technology.
411
We can provide that for them.
412
In fact, we just announced that we are doing that with Sprouts, where we power advertising on Sprouts.com.
413
And that means that overnight, Sprouts can start getting some of that advertising revenue directly to them.
414
And for us, it's also beneficial because that means that we can take the customers that are very loyal to Sprouts, going straight to Sprouts.com and also monetize that customer base.
415
So all of these technologies are already part of many retailer sites.
416
And we do that in a modular way.
417
Sometimes we power the whole website plus the fulfillment plus the ads.
418
Sometimes we just do the fulfillment, connect it to a retailer's website.
419
So we have multiple models to really adapt to where the retailer is at in their own digital transformation and what they want to build themselves versus what they want to complement with our technologies.
420
If you put your capital allocator hat on up against everything we've talked about, can you describe your principles of capital allocation?
421
I know you're passionate about this topic and have read a ton about it and thought a lot about it.
422
And given the amount of connective tissue there is for the Instacart ecosystem, it just seems like a capital allocator's dream that there's lots of things that you could outlay time, effort, and capital against, and that the skill will be choosing which to do and which not to do.
423
So what are the principles that will guide you in those decisions?
424
Fundamentally, we want to create value for everyone in our ecosystem.
425
And when I came to Instacart, we revamped our values.
426
And the value I cared the most about is this value called growth a pie, because I fundamentally believe that the best companies are really making an entire ecosystem rise and creating a lot of value for other players around them and then end up benefiting a lot from that value.
427
And that's why you're seeing me invest so much in making our retailer partners successful, making our brand partners successful, working with the L scale industry to meet the whole ecosystem that when they rise, we will win.
428
And a lot of the things I think about is one, we are in a market where it's even more important now to show financial discipline, to show that this is a model that is already profitable, but can be even more profitable over time.
429
I also think a lot about the fact that the tech industry has very much gotten a pass in the past for stock-based comp.
430
And now we need to hold ourselves to a much better standard and actually think about stock-based compensation as actual compensation.
431
Really wanting to be profitable net of stock-based compensation.
432
And once we clear all of these milestones, really thinking about the cash that we have in terms of opportunities to fuel the business and grow.
433
And that can include MA, but that can also include investing in a lot of the experiences that I have mentioned because we fundamentally believe that we're in the early innings of that industry and we want to continue to invest to grow and capture more share.
434
But the thing that never serves you poorly is focusing on free cash flow.
435
And as a result, we are very focused on that because that gives us a lot of options in the future to reinvest in all of the different ways to drive growth.
436
But what do you think if I got a room that had some sense of Instacart, what do you think the most common misperception would be about the business?
437
I think, you know, first off, there is still a big cloud over the industry of thinking of these models as fundamentally unprofitable.
438
And I think it's up to all of the players in that industry to show that that's not the case and that these models can actually at scale be very profitable.
439
That's the thing that I'm spending a lot of time on and showing how we get to the type of unit economics that make us a really successful business.
440
So that's, I think, very, very big thing.
441
I think the other thing might be that Instacart really is only the app.
442
And so that conversation shed a spotlight on the fact that that's not the case and that our network of partners are actually contributing a lot to our business.
443
And that's also very important.
444
There might also be this perception that I think is outdated of grocers not fully embracing the relationship with Instacart.
445
And I think when I arrived in the job, I spent a lot of time with our grocer partners to really try to understand what were their fears, what were their hopes, how do we align incentives.
446
And I think we're now at a place where it's very clear that our success doesn't come at their expense.
447
In fact, the incentives are aligned.
448
And by driving this customer online, we are actually driving their business for the future and making sure that their customers remain loyal and increase their share of wallet with that growther.
449
And so that I think has really changed in the last couple of years where that tension used to exist and doesn't exist that much anymore.
450
You've said to me before.
451
And I would love to understand what that means in practice.
452
What does it mean to see the magic in people?
453
Why is that valuable?
454
What do you do about it?
455
I would love to understand this method of yours.
456
The thing I mean by that is that I always try to focus whenever I have a new team member on trying to understand what is the thing that that person really spikes on, the thing that makes them really unique, and map problems we have to solve or opportunities we have to tackle to that person's unique strengths.
457
And that seems very basic, but sometimes it requires going beyond the thing that this person is obviously good at.
458
So I'll give you a concrete example.
459
My chief comms officer is obviously exceptional at communication, but she's also exceptional at creating a team that has a very high bar and very high consistency in their output.
460
And that's the thing that it's very useful to have in ops, it's very useful to have in product.
461
When I pick that up, hey, I actually want you to go teach that to all of your other peers because they can apply that in a lot of their areas.
462
Meanwhile, when I look at my CO, for example, she's obviously the best cooperator I can think of, but she's very good at taking a complex problem and figuring out how to organize teams around how to solve it.
463
And again, that can apply to finance, that can apply to plenty of teams she doesn't manage.
464
I organize these dinners with my team where I push them to talk about their superpower.
465
So I usually just push them a little bit.
466
This is what I see you do really spectacularly well.
467
How do you do it?
468
Try to articulate it for someone for whom that's not a natural skill and try to give them tools so that they can become good at that.
469
And I think that has made us all around the table better.
470
That has allowed us to change our playbooks, step up our games, and also create an environment where even when you're at the top of your game in one field, you can still feel you can learn and you're expanding in other territories.
471
How do you keep learning?
472
In a position like this, I'm always amazed by just the sheer amount of stuff to do.
473
There's just an unlimited buffet of problems and things that you could do that are great, fires you could put out.
474
How do you continue to learn as you also manage a business like this with so much complexity?
475
I learn first a lot from my team.
476
And my team will tell you, I am never ashamed of stopping a meeting and, hey, sorry, dumb question.
477
I do not understand this.
478
I want to learn.
479
And that has helped me a ton because coming from Facebook, it was interesting.
480
I was running a team of 6,000 people, so larger than Instacart.
481
The Facebook app by many dimensions could be thought of as bigger jobs than running Instacart.
482
But when I came into a CEO job, there were a lot of things that I had to ramp up on really quickly.
483
We just talked about capital allocation.
484
That's why I read books on it because when you're a product leader at Facebook, that's not what you spend all of your time thinking about.
485
I think having the humility to say, hey, I don't know this.
486
I want to learn.
487
Spend an hour with me.
488
Explain it to me top to bottom.
489
That has helped me a lot in ramping up in a lot of areas.
490
And whenever I talk to someone new, I try to spend a lot less time talking about what I'm doing and really instead listening about, oh, okay, tell me more about your world.
491
And I think that helps when you have that attitude.
492
The other thing is that I try to connect the dots between all of my different passions.
493
So to give you a concrete example, as a passion project on my weekends, I've partnered with two co-founders to create a medical and research center around chronic, complex chronic conditions.
494
And I had to learn a lot about healthcare in that context.
495
And this is knowledge that I was able to bring to Instacart when we were trying to figure out, okay, how do we crack getting into a partnership with Medicare and Medicaid programs so that Instacart would be one of the really possible benefits as part of that.
496
All of that healthcare knowledge came into play.
497
And that's what I love about it is all of the parts of my life end up adding to each other.
498
And I constantly take what I learn in one area and apply it to another.
499
I'm on the board at Shopify, for example.
500
And again, great example of learning from one of the best commerce companies and applying a lot of that knowledge to Instacart and vice versa, taking all of my lessons at Instacart and hopefully bringing that to Shopify as well.
501
So a lot of cross-pollinating of the different passions in my life.
502
What was the most surprising thing that you learned in your education on healthcare?
503
I think you need another one-hour podcast.
504
Give us a teaser.
505
I think it's that fundamentally, we have a healthcare system that, for many reasons, hasn't been optimized to really serve patients.
506
And I think a lot of it has to do with sometimes misalignment of incentives, sometimes oversimplification of the complexity of the human body.
507
And so, to give you an example, it's about 80% of healthcare costs come from complex chronic conditions that affect multiple body systems.
508
And yet, the healthcare system is still organized by specialties that look at you as if you were just one organ.
509
You know, you go to a cardiologist and they look at your heart.
510
You go to the neurologist and they focus on your brain.
511
But a lot of complex chronic conditions are actually at the intersection of immunology, cardiology, rheumatology.
512
And that's why patients are bouncing around from specialist to specialist with no one looking at the full picture.
513
And that's one of the things that we are trying to solve with my medical and research center.
514
But it's, I would say, a micro example of the bigger problem in healthcare, which is so many different silos and myopic views that don't serve the whole patient very well.
515
If you think across your entire business career, at what point did you feel the most helpless?
516
Helpless is just really not one of the emotions in my repertoire.
517
I always think about it.
518
Anytime something happens, there's the solution.
519
Just gonna find it.
520
I'm incredibly stubborn that way, which is a less generous view.
521
But I think there's always some obstacles.
522
I remember at Facebook, I had made a very big pitch for creating a video destination inside Facebook called Facebook Watch.
523
And for about a year, it really wasn't working at all.
524
No one was going there.
525
And it took many pivots to be able to get it to a place where it's actually now an incredibly successful product that's responsible for a large chunk of Facebook's time spent.
526
But at the time, I remember I called that time my walk through the desert because I was really looking for solutions and not finding many.
527
But I'll tell you, this thing that made me feel helpless at the time wasn't that the problem was hard.
528
It was more that I thought my own leadership wasn't up to what I wanted it to be to solve the problem.
529
The stress was getting to me.
530
I was trying to solve the problem by just pressuring the teams harder.
531
And that's never the right solution when you want to solve a hard problem.
532
And one of my team members took me aside.
533
It was a 10-second conversation.
534
Hey, I've seen you at your best.
535
This is not your best.
536
And we're going to need your best to solve this problem.
537
Bye.
538
And a real slap in the face.
539
She's one of my most trusted team members.
540
Yes, I need to bring my A-game.
541
And that means no fear, no stress, none of that.
542
And we ended up obviously solving the problem.
543
But I think fundamentally, you go to helplessness when you feel you don't have the resources.
544
And I would say it's just focus not on the problem, but focus on the leadership that's needed to solve the problem, and you'll find a path.
545
I heard Charlie Munger described recently by my friend David Senra as indifferent to problems, having seen so much in his life and career, another banking crisis, whatever.
546
We'll get through this.
547
And it sounds like you've got sort of a similar powerful mentality.
548
And yeah, that Facebook would definitely do that to me.
549
When I arrived at Instacart and they called some minor press saying, oh, this is a crisis.
550
No, you have not seen crisis.
551
We talked before about the role of AI and maybe generative AI even more specifically.
552
Can you dream a little bit with us about the experiences that that might allow for for an Instacart customer?
553
You mentioned that you might be able to input your constraints and that it would produce solutions.
554
And that's a general summary of it.
555
But maybe get a little bit more specific because I do think we're going to start to see these real use cases pop to life and they will feel like magic.
556
And you're in an especially unique place to be able to do this.
557
And so I'd love to hear your personal dreams of what might be possible.
558
Well, I think in the very short term, we've already released a plug-in for ChatGPT, which allows you to go and basically start talking about anything you want to do.
559
I'm organizing a birthday party and I need snacks for 15 kids.
560
What do you recommend?
561
Boom, you get an answer and you can order it in one tap on Instacle.
562
That's pretty magical.
563
Same thing for entire meal plans, which I find amazing.
564
My favorite one, because we were collecting those from employees, was my very judgmental.
565
Apparently, ChatGPT recommended a caprici salad, which means that the ChatGPT really hasn't met my own in-law, but would not be impressed by that.
566
All of these use cases are actually very magical when you go from natural language to a set of the ingredients to these ingredients showing up at your door.
567
I think that's incredible.
568
On meal planning, specifically, the ability to say, this is my budget, these are my food restrictions, these are the number of meals I need to plan, and have a set of suggested recipes, and then being able to, again, in natural language, iterate on that and say, you know, the thing you recommended for Tuesday, that's not really my jam.
569
Can you suggest something else that's maybe a little less spicy?
570
And have something else show up?
571
That's really, really magical.
572
I think going forward, there are some things that are really incredible, where you can take a picture of your fridge and you can get an immediate answer on, well, with what's left in your fridge, this is the recipe that we would suggest.
573
Or, hey, you took a picture of your fridge at the beginning of the week, and now this is the difference.
574
We can reorder all of these items.
575
That would be pretty cool.
576
You can imagine taking pictures of recipes on a recipe book, the recipe book we all have on our shelves and never open.
577
And you could very clearly take a picture of that, and now the ingredients show up because it is very cumbersome to open a recipe book, try to take a list of all the items, order them online.
578
All of that could be completely automated.
579
And then I think there's a lot of applications in health, wellness, and nutrition where you.
580
And right now, if you are someone who wants diet advice, going and seeing a nutritionist is a very luxury experience that's not affordable for most people.
581
If all of that knowledge is captured by an AI assistant, you can make nutritional advice completely democratized, which could be totally game-changing for the type of problems we have in the country where health fundamentally starts in the kitchen.
582
So I'm really excited about that as well, and really reach the promise of having a diet that is completely medically tailored to your exact needs and all of these ingredients showing up at your house.
583
I think we're way further away from that because every time you touch health, it is obviously very scary to make any mistake.
584
And I don't think the technology is there yet for us to trust that.
585
So we still need human intervention in the process.
586
But over time, I'm hopeful that we will be able to democratize experiences like that.
587
Your point about the nutritionist reminds me to ask about content.
588
At Facebook, you must have just learned an unbelievable amount about the power of content, different content form factors, what it can do.
589
How do you think about the role of content in business, generally speaking?
590
Because it seems it's just at the center of everything in our lives these days.
591
And I'm curious about Instagram specifically, but even more generally, just given your experience, how do you think about content plus business?
592
I'll give you a fun start.
593
People spend way more time watching content about food than preparing and eating food.
594
That tells you everything you need to know about the role of content.
595
But the way I think about it is that.
596
And I think when you develop a business that is based on inspiration, not just utility, you have a fundamentally more valuable business.
597
And this is something that we're trying to crack with Instacart, where Instacart was a fairly utilitarian business.
598
You already had to know everything you wanted to order for the week, put it in your cart, and that was the chore.
599
And we're trying to move to a model that is much more based on inspiration.
600
Because when you ask people, what do you not like about the things you eat every week?
601
Very often people tell you, well, we eat the same thing every week.
602
We are just in a rut.
603
We don't want to think about it.
604
We just eat the same meals over and over again.
605
Content is a way to make it easy for people to get out of that, inspire them to change their diet.
606
Maybe it's towards a healthier diet.
607
Maybe it's toward a more diversified diet.
608
And so that's why we integrated recipes very deeply into the Instacart experience.
609
That's why we also launched lists, which is influencers, celebrities, nutritionists being able to create this list of products.
610
So if you're on a low-sodium diet, these are the products that you should buy.
611
All of these things are a way to inspire people, nudge them in a direction of the experience being a little bit more exciting and nudging them towards products that they would not have sought to buy otherwise.
612
And so that's the role that content plays.
613
And I think the real question with AI is which content gets fully commoditized versus which content ends up being truly unique.
614
And I don't think we've fully seen that play out yet.
615
But if you think about recipe content, create entirely new recipes that do not exist in the world.
616
You can just create recipes that are like very specific to your taste and your family, et cetera, and AI will generate that for you.
617
I think that there's going to be a really interesting transition in what we think of in terms of content experiences and how this blocker of content needing to be produced and spending a lot of time doing that, some of that in some categories of content is going to go away and allow for an explosion of these much more inspiring experiences.
618
So interesting.
619
AI seems like a question that just about every company has to grapple with to some extent because we're just all so in the stream of content.
620
And one of the things that I found super interesting is we're still with AI in the very early innings of what personality looks like.
621
If you go to ChatGPT, the personality of that chat is fairly generic because it is a generic experience that needs to work for everything.
622
But if you think about what that can evolve towards in the context of food-specific experiences or travel-specific experiences, we're going to see a lot of evolution of what we call content because it's not just going to be, oh, it's a podcast or a video, the traditional way of thinking about content, but it's also going to be about what is the character of the AI, what is the personality of the AI.
623
And so imagine if you could go to Instacart and select that actually the chatbot you want to interact with should have the personality of an arrogant French chef and you want your meal plans coming from that person versus a very like Gordon Ramsey.
624
Or you want the personality of a very warm and amazing Brahma cooking come cook meals and that's what you want doing your meal planning.
625
I think what we call content is going to evolve towards being much more personality driven.
626
The next wave of creative content might be these different personalities for different chatbots.
627
Also, the IP that already exists, my mind goes to Gousteau from Ratatouille or something.
628
That's what my kids would want if they were cooking something.
629
And just the power of deploying IP is going to be amazing.
630
It's such a rich area to think about.
631
Well, Fiji, this has been so much fun.
632
I really enjoyed talking to you, learning about the business, learning about your philosophy.
633
I ask everyone that I talk with the same traditional closing question.
634
What is the kindest thing that anyone's ever done for you?
635
I think it's take a chance on me.
636
Give me a shot when I didn't even believe I was ready, but see the magic in me and make a bet.
637
It sounds like you're paying that magic thing forward over and over again.
638
So a lovely place to close.
639
Thank you so much for your time.
640
Really appreciate it.
641
Thank you so much, Patrick.
642
If you enjoyed this episode, check out joincolossus.com.
643
There you'll find every episode of this podcast complete with transcripts, show notes, and resources to keep learning.
644
You can also sign up for our newsletter, Colossus Weekly, where we condense episodes to the big ideas, quotations, and more, as well as share the best content we find on the internet every week.