--- METADATA START ---
Show: N/A
Episode: From reluctant founder to $2B … - In Depth
Host: Unknown
GUESTS: Rick Song
Guests: Rick Song
Source URL: https://podcasts.apple.com/us/podcast/from-reluctant-founder-to-%242b-valuation-the-story/id1535886300?i=1000706833531
--- METADATA END ---

 was under this feeling of, "I don't think this is real,
 and I just need to figure out why there's not a real,
 actually long-term business here.
 We're just gonna get far, far, far somewhere,
 and then we're gonna hit a hard wall."
 - For today's episode, I'm excited to sit down
 with Rick Song, the co-founder and CEO of Persona,
 an identity verification platform
 that just announced a 200 million series D.
 In today's interview, we turned the clock back to 2018,
 when Rick was an engineer at Square,
 and very reluctant to become a founder.
 - I don't know, I just didn't wanna spend like four years
 on this, realized that there was like a dead end
 of a company, and then like have to go tell
 all these people, "I'm sorry, I was wrong."
 - We then traced Rick's exact next moves,
 from landing on the idea, getting Persona's first 10
 customers with founder-led sales,
 and going horizontal quite early,
 versus starting with a narrower ICP.
 Let's dive in.
 (upbeat music)
 - Before you wrote the first line of code for Persona,
 what was going on the year before?
 Working on Square Capital at that time.
 Square Capital was kind of expanding
 into a multi-product kind of category.
 I was working primarily on risk,
 so Audrey Kim was my product counterpart at that time,
 so I'd work closely with her,
 doing a lot of things around kind of building identity,
 fraud, risk products, and also generalizing that
 across like all of the work at Square.
 So it was a mix of the same thing I'd been on Capital
 at that point, and also working on around
 like product identity stuff for four years.
 It was an extension of that,
 but Capital's growing like a weed at that time.
 So I've spanned out, worked on some other products.
 I did a brief kind of like trip to New York at that time,
 meeting some of the folks over out there,
 but at the very end of it all,
 actually there wasn't any like spark before
 kind of like that led to Persona.
 Charles is my co-founder and my roommate
 for up at that time, maybe three to four years.
 He'd been wanting to do a start for a long time.
 A joke I always told folks is about a draw box
 on an IPO of them, so he didn't know the travesty
 that like the start journey never end.
 But Square and RE IPO'd,
 I'd already gone through like the trough
 of disillusionment and understanding that.
 Every startup is a success until it's just a failure
 or something in the public market's eyes
 and then maybe you'll correct the narrative.
 I think Square kind of did, but you know,
 it's kind of like that.
 So Charles is really pushing on this idea of,
 we should do a start together.
 He had the YCDNA in him too with the drop box,
 so he was all about it.
 So he's the one who actually had pushed us to be like,
 "Hey, we should go like just do something."
 I've been doing like identity fraud-related stuff
 for quite some time.
 A lot of orchestration stuff with all sorts of vendors.
 We used to joke at Square sometimes that,
 "Hey, there's probably some company in this."
 None of us have the ego or the ambition to make it,
 but I'm sure someone out there will build
 something really great in this space.
 But I was joking with that.
 I was like, "Yeah, at least we can do this."
 In the back of my mind, I was also thinking,
 at the very least, that way,
 when I go back and get a job at Square,
 it won't be like, I went off and did nothing
 for like six, nine months.
 Like, "Oh, you know, I was exploring on the same work,
 I was doing still relevant to my job."
 So that was honestly a lot of the impetus
 for what had led over to a persona.
 It was just an extension of a lot of the ideas
 that were already brewing for maybe four years,
 five years at Square.
 Just observations on what we were seeing
 on some of the challenges within the space and otherwise.
 - What was the bit that flipped for you
 to when you went from just chatting about it
 to saying, "Okay, we're gonna go start a company."
 - Carlos can go off and do it,
 start with someone else at that point.
 He was like fed up with me.
 I've been telling him for like a year, you know,
 being like, "Oh yeah, I'm gonna quit at some point,
 right, dragging my feet."
 I was really happy at Square.
 Like, I'd been there for so long.
 I even had a quip that I stole from someone else there,
 which is life's too short to try new things.
 I was kind of heels dug in.
 And he was like, "Oh, I'm gonna go think about other stars,
 you know, think about doing something else."
 Like, "Oh, I'll worry about that."
 And I was like, "Oh, shoot."
 So at that point, I was like, "Yeah, why not?"
 Let's take like a six months of apple.
 We had this pact at that time.
 If it goes nowhere, we, you know,
 we'd join the company together
 'cause we'd always wanted to work together
 in some capacity.
 There's just a question of like,
 would it be a start up versus at a company together?
 And my thought was like, "Oh, why not?"
 You know, I've been here for so long.
 Why not try this?
 I'm of age in which, you know, you get out of your system
 and then I'll go back and be a corporate guy
 for the rest of my life.
 That's kind of what led to it.
 So why do you think being such a reluctant entrepreneur,
 why do you think it's worked thus far?
 What I always have been curious about your story
 is the opposite of Silicon Valley lore.
 Oh, I mean, that's the grand question, right?
 That's if I could answer that
 on my existential, my imposter syndrome.
 Oh, that would be cute in an instant.
 I thought about it.
 I have some theories on it.
 My immediate quip is probably a half of the valley
 is backward rationalization where we're like,
 "Oh yeah, this all makes sense than half."
 You know, of course, it's all made sense.
 How can you not tell, right?
 I mean, I've joked with some people right now
 that regardless of the outcome of AI,
 it's all gonna be completely obvious in five years, right?
 Like, how can no one tell that, you know,
 this was all a sham or the greatest thing
 that we've ever seen, right?
 And everyone's gonna be like,
 "How could those people back then couldn't not?"
 It was so obvious.
 I mean, at the end of the day,
 this is kind of where my, you know,
 all the rationalizations come to.
 I think it's combination of there's a motivation factor
 of like what continues to push you.
 And there's a lot of ways at it, right?
 And I've seen all sorts of founders
 of different motivations.
 The second, I think, is in the categorization kind of,
 inside or like just, if you are like everything else,
 then the market already is kind of like,
 discovered it's efficient.
 So at the end of the day, everyone,
 if you're trying to find edge of any form,
 it's, are you different from everyone else, right?
 And if the market pulls to heavily on one way,
 you know, it flips the other.
 It's kind of like that, right?
 So like when the Silicon Valley lowers,
 push so heavily in one direction,
 I can kind of see a second kind of rise up.
 On the motivation factor side,
 I think a big part is like,
 I've seen like founders get motivated by something,
 like just, they have to see this vision
 come out of the world, right?
 Some sort of progg vision.
 I actually think a very fine motivation
 is just a desire to build a company.
 I actually think some of the best companies out there
 is just like a desire of any company
 and just a relentless desire to build that.
 Mine, I think at this point,
 is a lot fueled by the sense of duty
 or just a fear of letting folks down.
 I mean, you know, it's better than anyone, right?
 There's a lot of folks at Persona now
 who I've known for a long time.
 Personas, one of their more unique traits of it
 is just the long tenure.
 A lot of folks are there for a long time.
 So I think that's kept me really motivated.
 All it's just like making sure it continues.
 So that's kept it locked in,
 but I don't think like the lower anything,
 all that doesn't really matter.
 As long as you have that motivation aspect.
 And then I think the second one was like,
 can you bring some sort of unique insight?
 And I think the unique insight I have
 is that reluctance is fundamentally tied
 to a certain skepticism and cynicism.
 And when you're skeptical of like,
 this thing doesn't automatically work.
 In effect, I think that's a form of first principles
 in which you're almost by default asking like,
 why is like what everyone else thinking wrong?
 And that I think continually allows you to find
 some form of edge.
 And like, I oftentimes tell folks that a identity
 is a very long like kind of deep space.
 It's been around for a long time.
 So to find edge in it requires folks to really
 be able to constantly like peel back the layers
 and find something no one else is thinking about,
 however small that edge is.
 And I think that cynicism helps that reluctance
 has helped us differentiate.
 That's where I've kind of wound up at now.
 - So going back to you and Charles starting this company,
 you doing it somewhat reluctantly,
 you decided that given you had so much experience
 building a bunch of this infrastructure from scratch it,
 Square, you kind of had an edge in that space.
 What exactly happened after you two said,
 okay, we're gonna go start this company.
 How did you figure out what to start with
 what the first version of the product would be?
 Did you spend much time thinking about
 how fractured and fragmented identity was?
 - So we knew how fragmented it was.
 That for sure, we were very well aware of it.
 The MVP part was hard.
 We knew we wanted to do something around identity.
 And at that point, it was a lot of just setting small goals.
 The first goal we had was,
 if anyone will pay us anything, we're a game, right?
 And I think the first customer of ours
 was paying us like $50 a month.
 It was like the small e-commerce shop, like $50 a month.
 We were like, we'll build exactly what you want.
 A lot of what we do is like, we build something.
 And then I think sometimes if you just keep
 on entering with MVPs, you just end up
 with a Frankenstein of a product.
 So the second half is like, okay, can we generalize?
 You know, once you get to, it's like,
 can we generalize, take a step back,
 not keep on selling and see,
 is there like some sort of common thread between these two?
 But we knew it had to be something identity-related
 'cause we thought one, we understood the space fairly well.
 We thought there was a lot of kind of ideas around like PII.
 The vision of Persona never really changed
 because the grand idea was pretty much,
 there is an opportunity to build
 a universal kind of like identity platform slash network.
 And that doesn't really exist today, right?
 'Cause like in payments, you have like Visa, Mastercard,
 it enables everyone kind of collaborate,
 it enables every single merchant to benefit
 from like shared risk, intelligence, otherwise.
 An identity was super fragmented.
 Every business, every vendor, every technology
 was all fragmented.
 So we knew that in state.
 So before you even started writing the first line of code,
 the long-term play was to build this consolidated
 end-to-end platform and identity.
 That's just a broad, squishy idea.
 Yeah, I mean, in the sense that we knew that
 is a big idea.
 Like it's one of those things in which,
 you know, for us, like we weren't creating brand-new
 industry, it was, I feel like there's why there's so many
 competitors in this space too.
 It's such a crowded space because I think the idea
 behind it is just so obvious, right?
 Like I always tell, whenever someone new joins,
 I never tell them like, oh, we have a market risk,
 like just identity is not a market risk company.
 It's fundamentally really an execution risk.
 And it's a very high execution risk
 because the idea is just so obvious.
 To me, it's like kind of online payments
 where you can argue how large is it.
 There's all sort of question there,
 but is it a utility, isn't it valuable?
 I mean, I don't think anyone ever argued that.
 Of course, like being able to transact online
 has to be valuable from day one.
 And I think the idea of like a real identity
 is very similar in which we have wanting to know
 who someone is and like, is there a person behind it?
 That's just a very kind of try and true idea.
 And then the second part of that is because the idea
 is big, if there is a way to consolidate
 and like, you know, build a large business,
 I think a natural offshoot of that
 would be a large business.
 That in and of itself, we never really had a question
 about so like how it was nebulous and fluffy,
 but we never kind of had to like steer away from that.
 The question then became like, how do you navigate,
 you know, these infinite paths to get there?
 And why did it not keep you from starting the company?
 Why did you not just say it's in some ways over funded?
 There's too many competitors.
 And thus it's uninteresting.
 I think the benefit of not having an expectation of success
 made that really possible.
 And my thought at the time, a lot of it was,
 I'd rather do something I kind of understand
 than like just completely something random
 and then afterwards go back and try to explain to everyone,
 you know, oh yeah, I learned a bunch of stuff
 about something that I'll never use again.
 And that's great.
 So that felt as if I was just continued deep
 in my understanding on something that joke earlier,
 life's too short to try new things.
 I was like, hey, I've done so long of like identity.
 Why not continue to understand a bit better?
 And the second half was just that we had so little
 expectation of getting anywhere,
 raising any capital at all.
 I think was like kind of cool.
 Can't believe that happened.
 And I think on every leg of the journey,
 even today, I'm very surprised of where we are.
 But I think that lack of expectation made it such that,
 you know, you can kind of continue along with it
 and continue to try to push on this space,
 continue to try to develop it.
 - Okay, so we took a little bit of detour,
 but you had the broad direction you were gonna go.
 And then the question was, where do we start?
 And you mentioned you started with a C-commerce company
 and just did whatever they wanted.
 Where did the company come from?
 Why did you care about going and building a widget for them?
 Like, what's the whole backstory?
 - We'd actually met y'all.
 We just got out of our YC interview at that time.
 I think we weren't planning to do YC regardless.
 We didn't want to drive down constantly.
 And at that time, you know, we were like,
 oh, I don't know.
 I don't even understand why exactly we don't want to do it.
 Well, I see, but one of our good friends,
 I mean, mutual friends, Niko,
 he'd actually ruined our entire application for us.
 And he submitted it, gave some like light feedback.
 Like, Niko, I'm not doing it anyway.
 So just try it, right?
 So I went down, we drove down that day, did the interviews.
 We're on our way back up.
 I think we stopped at a coffee shop
 'cause a friend of ours, like, hey, one of my friends,
 he like runs a small e-commerce shop.
 They knew to do kind of like age verification
 for the things they're selling, right?
 So we're like, cool, you know, put it in touch.
 And we like chat with them.
 And that's actually our first customer.
 Like just at the coffee shop, I call the guy.
 He's like, you know, like, I'm only going to pay, like,
 50 bucks a month.
 And I'm like, I'll do anything.
 Like 50 bucks, that's more than zero.
 We're at zero right now.
 So I'll take that deal.
 - So you had not run any code at this point?
 - We'd run some code because it felt bad
 to do nothing all day.
 So we run a lot of code a lot less to deploy.
 We had like the base of an app.
 We'd run like a bunch of like just small MVPs
 and things like that.
 - But void of talking to customers or anything,
 just building.
 - Yeah, but like we knew, you know,
 as both of us are engineers,
 we're like, there's just that like finite stuff.
 - Yeah, like you have to deploy.
 You have to have like some database out there.
 You know, you got it.
 Like we had a sign of GCP.
 We knew kind of had some base
 of the deploy system, some testing.
 At that time, the joke was like,
 my as well, you know, every single day,
 like build out the foundation that just does something.
 But I think this was like a maybe month two
 in which we were chatting with him.
 And like one of our first goals was just
 if we can get any customer, if anyone's paying us
 anything, at least like we go back and say,
 we had one, you know, we had one person paying us.
 So I think we stopped there.
 And then at that point, we kind of like really
 started revving and like started building something for him.
 What did you hear from that customer
 and what did it lead in terms of what you would build?
 - So that was kind of an interesting other time
 because like what they needed was kind of like age
 verification because like a lot of their segment
 were younger age, like 18 to 22
 in which you have a thin credit profile
 like database based verification would be tough.
 At the same time, you're buying like, you know,
 something from e-commerce.
 I think one of the bigger challenges then is like,
 you know, the speed of it has to be fast.
 Like you can't just like, you know,
 like wait for a long time.
 So a lot of folks would submit government IDs.
 A lot a lot of government IDs, right?
 That would be submitted.
 So we were like, okay, let's take a look at the state of the art.
 A lot of the state of the art at that time
 was like getting a person to actually look at it.
 And you know, that would take anywhere
 from like 30 minutes to an hour.
 So that's kind of our first impetus for the first product
 was like, let's just automate that.
 Like let's see if that's actually possible.
 So that became kind of the impetus for our first,
 you know, a core property of the government ID,
 like verification of fully automated way.
 And that kind of led to another customer
 who was like interested in that technology
 but viewed it more so from a fraud prevention perspective
 where they're like, oh, I could collect a right
 to do fraud prevention.
 And we started like introducing biometrics as a way
 to kind of help stop fraud as well.
 Cause like comparing the face to kind of a government ID
 would be a double kind of like pseudo to factor
 kind of approach towards a physical identity verification.
 So that was kind of like the evolution
 of like where the kind of platform evolved.
 But the benefit, one kind of crazy thing we had at that time
 was I think as soon as we got that e-commerce shop,
 the position of the business was we will never get
 two customers who do the same thing.
 And that I think was kind of really wild at that time.
 - Why did you choose that?
 Like the obvious conventional wisdom is
 you want to narrow in on a customer profile
 and then focus on that customer profile for months
 or years and then move on to the next customer profile.
 You obviously did the opposite.
 - I think a lot about like these days,
 I mean, a much more personal reason
 why I think that was the case was even at that point,
 I don't think we had been, we've become fully convicted
 that like there was any business here.
 I almost feel as if I was far past our series A
 before I really kind of realized,
 oh shoot, this might actually be somewhat of a real thing.
 At that point, I think I was always under the stealing of,
 I don't think this is real
 and I just need to figure out why this actually
 is not a real thing.
 You know, it's like we're living in some fantasy land
 right now and like there's not a real like
 actually long-term business here.
 We're just gonna get far somewhere
 and then we're gonna just hit a hard wall.
 So I think at that point,
 what I was really trying to prove to myself
 was like this idea that something universal
 I could actually go cross-platform.
 That's just as far as like it doesn't exist.
 'Cause like a lot of identity prior to this
 is very verticalized.
 You'd have all sorts of businesses
 who are all like, you know, they all have this idea
 of we're gonna build this universal thing,
 but in reality, it oftentimes just a vertical,
 like, hey, we generally focus on fintechs
 and like some maybe payments in particular,
 we generally focus on this.
 So I had a very strong conviction,
 like they all probably are right.
 I just don't know why it's not possible yet.
 I was like, let's just get that out of the way,
 find out that there actually isn't a business here.
 So we can stop wasting our time.
 You know, Vincent, the first person to join us,
 he like flown down was living on our couch at that point.
 And I was like, Vincent, you go back to Seattle,
 you go home, you know, like I feel bad
 that you've like come out here on this startup.
 So let's like spend these next three, four months
 and we'll figure out like, why does a terrible idea?
 There's nothing here.
 So yeah, we had this whole thing.
 And then like, even, you know,
 after a couple more folks joined,
 I think the first bit was all about like,
 is even possible closed customers across in Berkeley,
 can we figure out how to speak to each one of them?
 It was really kind of, it didn't make a lot of sense
 at that time.
 But I think a lot of it was driven by this idea of,
 it's better proof that this doesn't work sooner
 rather than, you know, continue to like fool ourselves.
 - What's the story behind the first five or 10 customers
 that came after it?
 And what was the actual product that you were selling?
 'Cause the first product was this quick government ID
 verification product that you sold
 to this e-commerce company.
 - Yep.
 - And then how did you end up
 with the next handful of customers?
 And was it the exact same use case?
 - I was really Michael, no same use case.
 Like, it has to be different use cases
 and it had to be different industries.
 So we really pushed on that.
 - But it was all because you wanted to
 invalidate the idea as fast as possible,
 not because you thought it would be the most likely way
 to not become a verticalized niche player.
 So I said that a lot.
 Like, that's what I said back then.
 And I reflect on it a lot.
 'Cause I, you know, these days you go through all sorts
 of self-reflection of who you were six years ago.
 I think, like I said that I was like,
 oh, like the only way we can actually prove
 that this is actually a big business has to be that.
 And when I think like in self-reflect
 and like introspect, I think the real reason was more
 because I really kind of want to prove like that,
 you know, I don't know.
 I was like so scared of like just wasting everyone's time
 and like pretending as if there was something big here.
 'Cause yeah, I mean, the reason why I've been
 introspect so much on that, I was like,
 I think the rational thing would be,
 hey, we should do this.
 Like in like first, like talk grow,
 and then we'll figure out those problems later on.
 But I don't know.
 I mean, the early days of so much
 about like invalidating core kind of like long-term problems
 as opposed to like just trying to get off the ground,
 which was kind of insane.
 But that's why I say, I think actually in truth,
 it probably was driven by this personal feeling of,
 I don't know, I just didn't want to like spend
 like four years on this,
 realized that there was like a dead end of a company
 and then like have to go tell all these people,
 I'm sorry, I was wrong.
 And like I've been lying to you all this time
 that there was this like grand vision
 and I understand this grand vision.
 - So do you think that approach in those first few months
 is actually a good approach?
 That other people who are starting companies
 should consider doing that,
 even if you kind of did it for maybe the wrong reasons?
 Or do you think it was somewhat anomalous
 that it happened to randomly work
 in this thing that you're trying to do at persona?
 - Every great business, I think has an A typical path.
 All of them, every single one of them,
 there's something kind of like unique.
 And I think about that,
 'cause I think the core of it is that you just like,
 if you like start doing what everyone else is doing,
 there's just no edge anymore, there's no opportunity.
 So I think every business, like at the end of the day,
 there's something atypical about.
 I don't think many people go down this like heavy
 kind of like invalidation path.
 But there's also like great business.
 I mean, I always hear what was it,
 I respect a tremendous balance rippling.
 Like Parker Conrad's approach on rippling was the,
 we're gonna build like consolidation from day one,
 we're gonna build a massively ambitious platform
 from literally series A, not launched for multiple years.
 I have a good idea of exactly what we're building here.
 We're not gonna talk to anybody.
 And then we're gonna unveil it and like really just go
 and like it's taken off, right?
 And I think that's a crazy approach.
 A lot of people are all about like the lean MVP or whatever.
 I think like any kind of approach
 if it's differentiate enough.
 So the second half of it was like,
 can other companies do it?
 I think that's where the founder personality
 probably comes in play because I think for many others,
 especially a person, when they hear that like,
 that was kind of our approach in the early days,
 it's not like, oh, that's insane.
 And actually, when I told some of my close friends
 about this outside of work,
 they're like, yeah, that sounds like something you would do.
 And I think that's kind of where it comes to.
 It's like most likely whatever approach
 that works group is, it'll probably sound like something
 if you told your close friends.
 It'll be like, oh, yeah, that makes sense exactly
 how you'd probably approach the problem or think about it.
 - Let's go back to the story of the next handful
 of customers, like what did you build?
 How did you find them?
 - One of our customers,
 we the first engineer who joined us, Bill,
 he'd attended one of the first round of events.
 And he was talking with another company here.
 And you know, he was like pitching like,
 hey, we do I had any verification, you know?
 And like, that's actually how we found the next one.
 I think they were within the marketplace space,
 you know, helping kind of connect the parents with sitters.
 And you know, they needed to do some things around like
 fraud prevention, background checking.
 So that was actually how we could discover
 the next customer for us, which was, hey, all right,
 well, you know, and then we kind of iterate
 on the platform, adjusted kind of like the core,
 kind of like to meet their needs, to meet their needs,
 right?
 A lot of that became kind of later on,
 I mean, this continuous iteration of like, you know,
 we worked with a, there's a crypto company
 in which like their core consideration really
 was about like global onboarding and streamlining
 kind of KYC AML.
 So that was very different from both the age verification
 and kind of fraud prevention approaches.
 So we kind of like had to adjust the platform,
 kind of meet their needs too.
 And I mean, a lot of the other customer,
 whether it was a FinTech customer.
 And theirs was similar to the crypto one about KYC AML,
 but like with kind of variation,
 they were much more US focused and they had a demographic.
 They were really trying to serve.
 So we partnered with them too.
 - When you were talking to those customers
 and sort of effectively building a custom solution
 or maybe half of the solution,
 you were repurposing your existing infrastructure
 and half of it.
 I guess you were just spinning on the fly for them.
 When you were talking to them about being a customer
 and talking to them about the product,
 even if it didn't exist that you were building,
 was there a lot of pull from them?
 Like they were telling you they have a lot of pain.
 This is exactly the type of thing we need.
 We're like, what was the reaction you were getting
 from those early customers?
 They were all small.
 I mean, one of the bigger challenges early on,
 we all came from tech industry.
 So we'd also met a lot of larger customers
 and we got a lot of nos.
 They were like, we're not gonna work with a seed stage
 startup on like managing personal information.
 There's just no way, right?
 Like weird, you know, borderline public, you know,
 there's no way.
 So we got a lot of nos back then.
 So at that time, working with lobbies, early companies,
 I wouldn't say they had a burning problem.
 You know, they're usually like a couple founders,
 a couple other folks working with them.
 They hadn't really had a team dedicated this.
 And we could definitely talk to them.
 It was like, hey, we're just effectively
 an outsourced identity arm for y'all.
 That's what you said to them.
 I mean, we didn't say exactly like that.
 But it's like, you know, we'd talk with them
 exactly how they should think about their problems.
 And we're like, we can adjust our platform
 to meet that, right?
 Like we'd understand exactly what they give.
 Kind of really a, the first sales person who joined
 his Dan, who now does product here.
 He told me, you were a challenger selling people
 before they're, you know, without reading the book.
 And I was like, I have no idea what you're talking about.
 Dude, I don't read.
 If you've ever read the challenger sale,
 I think that's what it is.
 Like, we're really just trying to understand their problem
 and then proposing a solution and be like, if your game,
 that's the solution will deliver for you.
 And that's kind of like what got them kind of through it.
 Because they were looking for advice.
 I mean, identity is one of those spaces in which
 you're probably, if you're early,
 you're not going to hire someone to focus on identity.
 It's just not within like your first 10 or even 20 hires,
 except for very specific spaces.
 Generally trying to find park market fit,
 just build out core product.
 Identity is kind of an auxiliary thing.
 And having someone both provide advice,
 because, you know, I understood a lot of the problems
 within the space of that time.
 Provide advice, be genuine, like, you know,
 honestly, from a pricing perspective,
 also just very generous pricing.
 And like building trust on delivering that solution,
 I think of that, I think resonating a lot.
 And like many of those customers,
 especially the ones who are still operating,
 they're still with us.
 Were you concerned at the time
 that when you went up market, no one was interested?
 Throughout our series A, that was a major concern for me, right?
 Was it like, is it even realistic?
 Like, that became the next.
 After I kind of had settled on the idea of,
 it's probably possible to go horizontal
 and try to go after many industries.
 I think after about like 10 or 20 customers,
 we did this grand re-architecture,
 because we realized like everything had gone to kind of,
 you know, bespoke.
 So we created this whole versioning system
 of like our products, like now 2.0.
 No, it's not an external thing, it's just internal,
 like we have to refactor it all.
 But after that, like kind of refactor,
 the next just constant concern for me was this myth of like,
 oh, we'd be able to just level up and like, you know,
 this idea will start small and get slightly bigger customers,
 slightly bigger and slightly bigger.
 That would probably die.
 So that became like, just, we were constantly wondering
 about it.
 And I think we were kind of able to get through it
 because even today, I mean,
 you just never really stop selling, right?
 Like for the largest customer,
 I mean, I'll be on a call at 9 p.m. tonight
 with a prospect, 'cause I'm always wondering,
 can we push that next kind of type of archetype
 of customer and someone's always kind of pushing towards,
 can we grow up markets?
 So yeah, I mean, we were able to kind of like,
 I guess staircase our way up,
 but it was for a long time before I realized.
 And even once we started getting like later stage startups,
 we started wondering is it realistic to work
 with like public companies is, you know,
 and I mean, there's still a lot of major industries.
 I don't think we've broken into still today.
 And I still wonder is it possible?
 Were you worried that you were just creating
 a consulting shop for identity
 as opposed to an actual products company?
 No.
 Well, the reason why I say no is at that time,
 I didn't think so because I didn't really care
 if it was a consulting shop or not.
 I was like, you know, if we get a customer, that'd be great.
 And the second one is how we were pricing them,
 was like we're pricing a product.
 You know, that's why it was so unbelievably,
 like a good deal is that, I mean,
 we were just the cheapest consulting shop.
 And like the product itself, like as long as we had faith
 that we could like repurpose it, I wasn't too worried.
 Like it wasn't like we're just building
 a brand new solution every single time.
 It really did feel as if there was this organic evolution.
 And even as we're building things,
 we always in the back of our minds had an idea of,
 oh, I could see how we could like, you know,
 re-consolidate these two into a generalized kind of idea.
 So there was never really this idea.
 The solutions were never so far apart.
 And because we have the vision that one day,
 all these identity operations,
 all these identity verification methods,
 this whole identity platform will all sit together.
 It never felt as if we were like doing wasted work.
 When you think back to the first few dozen customers,
 did you continue to just take anybody
 who was interested in what you were doing?
 Or at some point, did you develop a point of view?
 So we had two types then,
 which we probably would not work with.
 Identity is like a very sensitive space.
 There's a lot of like regulatory legal kind of pressures in it.
 Sometimes I think some of the asks were,
 I'd probably say like not kosher,
 probably not with an art wheelhouse.
 So I'll actually will never forget,
 'cause the first customer,
 I mean, this might have been customer,
 or potential customer number three or four,
 they were offering $5,000,
 which you know, when you're working in Atlanta,
 like 50 bucks, you're like, holy, moly, 5,000.
 I won't say what their ask was,
 but the ask was weird.
 (laughs)
 And I remember Tony Charles,
 'cause we were at the time, like holy crap.
 That's like, I mean, we'd be able to tell everyone 100 X growth.
 Think about 100 X growth month over month.
 I mean, we at this point, you know,
 we're joking that we could like,
 we'd be in Google and like 100 X every single month.
 We had Google scale in no time,
 maybe, you know, 12 months.
 I don't know, I remember we were like putting in
 like a Google Sheets,
 pretending how fast that we could just kind of keep getting
 at the next ones, you know, 500,000, just continue.
 But then, once we heard their ask,
 we're like, this is really weird.
 And I'd feel like everyone feel good doing this.
 It took some confidence to turn that down.
 I think what we had said was like,
 I mean, 5,000 still isn't enough to pay both of us.
 You know, this doesn't, it's not worth it, man.
 Like, we shouldn't do this.
 And like, we turn to each other and we're like,
 yeah, we're gonna not work on this one,
 that you guys can probably find something else.
 That was a test of character for us.
 We're pretty proud of like turning that one down.
 I know it's not a lot of money,
 but we were pretty proud of that.
 And I think later on, that helped,
 at least like set the foundation for,
 once we got bigger as a company,
 there were a couple other really large opportunities where,
 and at this point, it was actually
 meaningfully sized opportunities where we were like,
 this is weird, I don't think we should do it.
 So those were ones we always turned down.
 The second types were ones where,
 it's straight a little too far from like,
 what we thought would sit in this unified identity platform.
 I don't know quite like exactly eight.
 So it's like, there were a couple of things around like,
 more so like, what about this person versus who they are?
 We always knew like, if there's an identity platform,
 what we should always focus on is this core question of,
 are you who you say you are?
 And like, with all that, like all these other additional things.
 But we knew that like, the question that we didn't want to answer is,
 you know, things about you, right?
 Like our, you know, credit worthy,
 are you background check?
 Like, because of my work a lot on Square Capital,
 I knew pretty in depth that there's a hard separation between,
 are you who you say you are versus, you know,
 like, hey, should you have access to something and all of that?
 So there were a lot of ask them,
 which really helped us narrow our scope
 and make sure that we didn't ever get into, you know,
 too wide of a vision.
 So whenever it fell, as someone was asking for to say a background check,
 we'd be like, we're not a background check provider.
 There's a lot of really, really great businesses doing that.
 But we answered the question of, are you who you say you are?
 Not, you know, should you have access?
 So that helps narrow the scope sometimes.
 So then they call it 15 or 20 customers.
 What was the shape of the product at the time?
 We had a bunch of modules,
 which a lot of like just these modules.
 And I think like we sometimes hard-coded,
 especially for some customers, like, hey,
 these modules sit together for this person's flow.
 Already for some customers, we'd already built out some rule logic
 to be like, hey, you know, like, if it's, you know,
 if they had this configured for them versus this,
 we had a whole concept called a template,
 which is every single business had a template,
 which now like runs everything with our business.
 Every single thing is a template now.
 But we had already built at this concept of a template,
 it would be the generalized idea
 of what specifications they have
 for all these modules and how they all orchestrate together.
 But we'd also add a lot of hard-coded stuff,
 where it's like, I can't figure out exactly how to logic this right now
 or the logic engine that we first started with
 to do all the orchestration
 wasn't powerful enough to support them.
 So, you know, we'd be like, if it was this customer, do this.
 And at 15.20, we were pretty,
 we realized this was working on wheelies.
 So we kind of stopped, pulled back a bit
 on like continue higher on beyond a Dan,
 who I mean, honestly, at this point didn't really operate
 as a sales, he was like product plus sales.
 Once we hit that, we were like, hey,
 we really need to like rethink, recalibrate,
 re kind of do the platform at this point in time.
 Were you just doing founder led sales for those first few dozen customers
 that was sort of part consulted, part two as you were saying?
 Absolutely. I mean, it would be Christy or CEO still with us today.
 But like, you know, she was the fifth or the third person to join us.
 Christy, myself, Dan, Vince.
 Like, I mean, honestly, the whole company kind of at that point,
 like almost everyone was on sales in some way, shape or form.
 But yeah, I was for sure.
 At what point did you feel like we might have product market fit?
 And how do you define what product market fit is or was?
 Oh, that's the grand question.
 My sassy answer to that is product market fit is the goal.
 The product be large enough for the, you know,
 for your investor expectations of how large a product needs to be.
 And if that's the answer, I wonder all the time.
 I don't know if I've ever really found product market fit.
 I'm always because, you know, you're always like, oh,
 is there really, are you really going to hit the size and expectations
 of, you know, what all your investors have?
 So, and by the time you even get close to it,
 at that point, if you waited long enough,
 you're existing investors who, you know, pushed you to already go
 and like expand the vision anyway.
 On those ends, I don't know.
 Like really it's like, I knew, I would say around probably towards
 the end of our series A in which like, you know,
 we're about 100 customers at that point.
 I knew there was a business here.
 I don't know if it's a venture scale business,
 but I was like, this is a business.
 Like, you know, and in all honesty,
 I don't think we ever wondered, could a business be built in this space?
 It's, can you build a massively massive scale business?
 And that I think was, I probably am just starting to feel
 that that's possible now within the last year.
 So I'm like, yeah, I think there actually is really,
 really something big here, but I mean, it took a long time.
 What, what changed?
 What did you see or what changed in your thinking that caused
 you to think that now there is a real path here?
 A couple of things.
 I mean, a lot of like the core risks had disappeared, right?
 I mean, you know, the stat we saw in the share is like three
 of the top five large companies in the world.
 It's like work with the persona.
 And like now, I do believe, you know, we may not have figured
 out all of our go-to-market messaging,
 but I do feel there is a way in which persona can work
 for every single thing.
 Like my core two big risk was, is it possible to build
 something that universal, horizontal across many,
 many different use cases?
 And two, can you do it at scale?
 And like with the largest companies find this to be valuable?
 Those two I really do believe are through now.
 And I think persona can sort both of those.
 The second one is really like, I think this question
 of who is someone online has become more important than ever.
 If you believe that AI and agents are going to be so powerful
 online in which you really can't differentiate,
 is this a person like, you know, online anymore?
 I mean, there's nothing really stopping.
 Genuinely believe that like within the next two, three years,
 you won't be able to differentiate human behavior
 from agent behavior.
 Captures are already better solved at this point
 than by AI, like zero shop models can already solve
 some of these like, oh, we're going to randomize
 challenges you're solving.
 They're so good at this, right?
 You're watching like, you know, O3 tackle the arc
 challenge better than humans at times.
 It's really quite incredible.
 I think what we're going to start seeing the internet
 move towards, in my belief, is it's not a question of,
 are you a human or a bot anymore?
 That's just an irrelevant question.
 The behavior at least is not possible distinguished.
 It's really just going to be, if this is a bot,
 who's accountable for this bot?
 And who are you who's like in charge?
 I mean, all internet traffic, all activity,
 someone's accountable for it.
 Some human at the very tail end of it is the person
 who's like, this is my thing.
 And that has made me really feel as if this future
 in which like, who online is going to be really important.
 Because there's a longer term existential question
 of how important is it to know who is someone online?
 Like, there's this question in the back of my mind.
 Like, beyond these two, a far larger one, which is,
 what if everything online, like, maybe one day,
 who are you just doesn't matter?
 And now I'm watching AI and all that.
 I'm like, no, actually, in fact, it's the opposite.
 That's true, which is who are you
 is the only question that matters, probably.
 It doesn't mean that you should de-anonymize the person,
 but you have to be able to trace something back to like,
 yeah, there's some human at the very, very tail end of this.
 Let's sort of go back to kind of those first 100 customers.
 What was going on with the pricing model
 over that period of time?
 And were you worried that, like, at some point,
 this sort of consultative sales or sales motion
 has to map towards an ACV that's not $500?
 Come here. Yeah, of course.
 It's like there's a difference in somebody's finding value
 in the product and somebody willing to pay you for that value.
 And if ultimately a customer was worth 300 bucks to you,
 it'd be very hard to make a fantastic business out of that.
 So I think that we did get a couple of larger customers
 at this point, you know, once we were paying,
 maybe a couple of tens of thousands a month.
 That had helped kind of, and that was somewhat random,
 to be honest, in which, like, we just saw a customer
 and watched, they were like, oh, shoot, this is great,
 and we just need someone to do this.
 They were still rather early stage,
 but, like, the problem for them had become so big
 and, like, the amount of models that we built out.
 Like, they were, they just really found a click
 with the platform at that time.
 So at some point, I actually, I don't remember exactly when,
 but I don't know why we were never really too worried
 about will someone pay enough for this.
 So that never really kind of had crossed our mind.
 I do think the consultative sale process that is,
 and I think will always be a worry for me,
 because it's a really hard sales motion.
 And there's a question of, like,
 can you scale out this sales motion?
 This goes to a much broader kind of challenge,
 which is if you're trying to sell a platform,
 like inherently selling a platform,
 means that your overall go-to-market messaging
 becomes, like, really tricky.
 And in particular, it becomes hard to scale,
 because, like, it's no longer just,
 this is what we do.
 But instead, we help solve this entire problem.
 Then you have to help solution people
 to show how the platform can help solve that.
 That inherently means that you can't, like,
 train up as many salespeople,
 you can't, like, scale out a go-to-market team.
 There's just all sorts of complexities involved with that.
 That, I think, will always be a concern
 on, like, how large and how quickly can you grow.
 I don't know.
 I don't think, like, I've never really kind of had
 the thought of, like, oh, you know,
 like, that shouldn't be the way that we sell things.
 Maybe talk more about, like, some of the things
 you've figured out in bringing a true platform
 that can do many different things to market
 versus, you know, a single-point solution.
 The first one, I'll reiterate, I was like,
 the go-to-market motion for selling platforms
 is fundamentally different.
 One of my core beliefs now is that you pretty much
 have to do a bit of, like, founder engaged,
 like, almost at all scales, you will,
 the founder will never be fully disconnected from sales,
 because, like, understanding the--
 it's no longer, like, here's the simple thing
 that solves this problem anymore.
 You always have to understand, like,
 a platform that's core is solving not so much, like,
 you know, a core problem statement,
 but rather, in our suite of different problems, right?
 Like, the value of a platform is
 that it's dynamic and solved many problems.
 Inherent within that becomes, there
 is a solution in nature to all of your sales process,
 and the solutions people are looking for
 will probably continuously evolve.
 So if you go towards the platform motion,
 I think that you will never really
 leave a founder engaged sales motion at any sort of scale.
 I mean, going back to Ripley again,
 because I can't-- I think Parker's just incredible,
 at least, as a founder.
 He forever engaged, right, on sales.
 I mean, you look at this guy, like,
 he is consistently on Twitter, on always, always, always,
 trying to understand what the buyer problems are
 and what business's problems are.
 So that's one.
 It's like, I've become, you know, sometimes, as a--
 especially as a technical founder, you're like,
 oh, maybe one day I can stop being, you know,
 the sales side of things.
 But now I'm like, no, I think, like,
 if you're going to build a platform business,
 you will never stop.
 It's very important to really understand.
 And like, the problems evolve constantly,
 I mean, especially within our space, right now, with AI,
 with, you know, all sorts of new regulations,
 with de-globalization, you're just always
 going to be, like, in the process of, like,
 understand problems, translate back
 into how the platform can solve it, add in the building
 blocks, or, you know, whatever kind of components,
 where we want to call them, in your platform,
 to make sure you continue to meet the needs of, like,
 all the new things out there.
 And I think this has a really challenging translation
 to how do you scale out to go to market motion around this?
 Because your top-level messaging will be easy.
 The top-level messaging will be, like,
 I can solve all your problems around identity, for example,
 using Rippling again.
 It's like, you're all-in-one, H-R-I-T, you know,
 finance solution.
 That gives you an all-in-one kind of messaging.
 But once-- like, no buyer's buying all-in-one, right?
 Every buyer's buying something that's, like,
 targeted towards them, that you're all-in-one can solve.
 And training folks to always connect those two dots
 is really, really challenging, not to mention
 the more powerful your platform, the more things
 you have to train salespeople on.
 So, like, you're almost constantly trying to catch up.
 So enablement, as a result, becomes one of the most
 important things, making sure that you can scale out
 how you kind of teach out your sales team.
 And the second thing that probably becomes even more
 important, like, a lot of times, if you have a PLG,
 like, single-prock motion, you can scale out sales.
 And, like, post sales, oftentimes,
 you can figure out, like, a more scalable solution for it.
 Post sales becomes just one of the most important things
 for any sort of platform-engaged solution.
 Because even if you're able, like, connect the dots
 on, like, hey, here's how my solution translates over.
 The implementation, the support model,
 all of that becomes so, so, so important.
 I think a lot of business is, especially ones who have,
 like, I mean, one of the most complex platforms
 in my mind is the Palantir.
 Like, their platform is just unbelievable
 or can build anything you can possibly imagine.
 For them, like, they have such an innovative,
 like, go-to-market motion in which they blended
 and, like, re-arcting, rethought, truly
 from first principles idea of what sales and post sales is.
 They've really made that far more nuanced,
 because I think the more complex your platform becomes,
 the more customized, the more your go-to-market motion
 entirely will be differentiated probably
 from any other business out there,
 you won't be targeting on, like, the same, you know,
 you will not engage on the same path.
 There's not really a tried-and-true motion
 can copy anymore.
 Hiring people will suddenly become very different,
 as well, because if you hire, say, VP of sales
 from one place to another, they're going to also
 have to learn about, hey, this is really different.
 Like, you have to hire VPs who are comfortable
 with, you know, flexibility and, like, evolving there,
 existing conventional wisdom, a willingness to kind of
 think things from first principles with you
 on what an entire go-to-market motion looks like.
 So, platform businesses, I think, like, you know,
 all products aside, which I think has its own
 set of challenges, but I do think you can kind of map
 and, like, figure it out.
 On the go-to-market side, I think it's going to be super,
 it is hard to overstate how differentiate
 your go-to-market motion probably will end up looking
 for any sort of platform business.
 And that becomes hard to explain to all sorts of people, too.
 On this theme, I think, conventional Silicon Valley
 advice that sort of as you begin to scale,
 you want to get out of the consulting
 and customizing business.
 So you sort of standardize the widgets that you're selling
 and you standardize the way that you sell them.
 For the last year or so, you've always had a highly
 consultative element of the business, but it feels like
 you're going in the other direction, which is you want
 to go as hard in this sort of consultative style
 of pre and post sales.
 Maybe talk about, like, how you landed on that.
 There's a lot of, I would call, pseudo platform businesses.
 And when I say platform business,
 I have to kind of define that.
 To me, a platform business is the one
 which you have multiple products that are truly
 independently used ideally by many teams.
 You are just not a single SKU.
 I think a lot of businesses are effectively single product
 with maybe a constellation of features that are also
 being sold to and that you can upsell.
 But it really is this single kind of product, right?
 And generally, this product can be either even
 for multiple use cases or one use case, but, you know,
 it's really kind of like the core product that you have.
 I think the difference of a platform business is really
 you're selling a whole suite of products to solve
 some ambiguous problems companies have
 and you're mapping multiple products into solutions
 for every one of them.
 And the product mappings there probably will be pretty
 kind of like dynamic and ambiguous.
 And I think that kind of overall setup is really
 quite different.
 So what was the story behind your first one or two
 real enterprise customers?
 I mean, the good news for us, we didn't have to change
 much of our go to market motion because effectively
 what we were doing is enterprise sales for startups.
 Which, you know, incredibly scalable.
 So that didn't change too much.
 Like we had a very large company engagement since
 the early days of like, oh, we'll build all sorts of things.
 Like in our DNA was we'll build things for new deals
 as necessary.
 So there wasn't also this like cultural misalignment of,
 you know, if you go down a platform,
 trying to build a platform, you oftentimes,
 I think for product side, you have to have a more
 a culture that's more comfortable with reactivity.
 Right.
 So that I think like culturally to like for enterprise
 oftentimes the big like shock, I think for businesses
 and which like they're very heavily PLG into enterprise
 is suddenly your roadmap, all your planning,
 how you think about the product becomes a lot more
 reactive.
 And oftentimes that creates all sorts of chaos.
 But we didn't have too much of that process.
 We're already doing that for startups.
 The first enterprise deal for us depends on, you know,
 how you define enterprise.
 But I would say our first like large, you know, like
 multi multi billion dollar company that we're working for
 that one, I think was a $5,000 contract for a year.
 It was the smallest thing.
 But we were like, we just, you know, again,
 the insecurity of all is like, gosh,
 we need to just get someone who's big.
 So we like build something completely custom for them.
 Charles actually built it completely custom.
 I think it's 5,000 a year for it.
 And I think he spent a good couple of weeks.
 I mean, if you're talking to ROI,
 that's as negative as I guess.
 - Why did you choose to do that?
 - We had to get it.
 I mean, we were just like, you know,
 it's like this like the stair casing.
 I'm like, hey, could we find, you know,
 could we get this next thing?
 Could we even do it?
 It was, we had no one.
 So we're like, hey, yeah, of course we'll do it.
 We want to just see if we can like actually close
 someone of that size and they would trust us
 because one of the other kind of like outstanding questions
 was would anyone trust the company so small
 to deal with such sensitive information?
 - What's the type of thing that was built for them?
 - It was something for Japanese identity verification.
 Like, I mean, and there's really crazy stuff for Japan.
 Like like, for example, all their ID cards,
 these, they don't use a Gregorian calendar, right?
 So like we had to do a lot of custom work
 to make sure even for like Japanese day parsing,
 making sure that respects Imperial calendar there
 and all sorts of aspects.
 I think we also had built a module for them around,
 you know, a license plate verification,
 which isn't used anymore.
 It was like a very temporary thing.
 But I think that's how we got our foot in the door.
 It's like, you know, we're just like, yeah,
 we'll build a classifier for a license plate detection.
 You know, if you'll work with us
 and I think that at least create the relationship.
 So that way we can continue to work
 with them on other projects as well.
 - And so did it look like you in whatever way
 it got connected with this customer
 and you were just rooting around for anything
 that they couldn't find somewhere else
 that you could build for them?
 - Honestly, yeah, as long as it was like
 even tangentially related to identity.
 Like, I mean, the license plate stuff
 was like effectively not related at all,
 but it was the same team.
 So we're like, oh, you know,
 it's good to be able to just work with them.
 And frankly, I think, I mean,
 we've gone so many nosed up until that point.
 I mean, you could stretch the imagination.
 It won't make sense anymore.
 As long as it was something technical
 that didn't require, you know, like too much,
 I probably would have said yes to.
 - Were you able to take that customer
 and turn them into a platform customer?
 - Yeah.
 - No, that was the other big unlock.
 As I mean, they're one of our largest partners now.
 We continue to work with them today.
 - How did you go from this Japanese license plate
 and widget to them being a full persona platform customer?
 - Well, part of it was like after that,
 they came to us with more and more problems.
 And I think that's one of the core things of why,
 like the solution in Pokemon PM so important
 is either you push the solution up front,
 like early on in the process.
 - Talk more about what you mean
 when you say solutioning up front.
 - Solutioning up front,
 meaning like helping them like craft out,
 hey, this is all the problems we're going to solve.
 And this is how we're going to solve it, right?
 Like the same motion that I talked about
 from the earliest days of the startup
 in which, you know, we were like,
 what's your problem?
 This is how we propose to solve it.
 That's really fundamentally solutioning.
 You do that for all enterprise deals, right?
 'Cause like for enterprises,
 it's very rare that they're coming and saying,
 like, I want this proc.
 Usually enterprise motion is more like,
 Hey, I have this problem.
 Who is the person who's going to help me solve this end to end?
 And now you come into this process,
 like this is how we're going to solve it.
 And you're proposing effectively a custom process
 'cause for them,
 they want the whole process kind of like solve.
 They don't want just, you know, like a wheel
 figure it out ourselves.
 That is kind of like the fun and most solution parts.
 Like we would explain,
 hey, these are all the parts of persona that we have.
 And this is how we solve your problem.
 Here's some things we're missing,
 but we will commit to building that,
 you know, whether contractually otherwise,
 to help you get like this end to end thing done.
 That, I think like for usually you're either going to do
 that whole process really upfront in which like, you know,
 for companies in which you want larger contracts earlier
 or if I'm mentioning Palantir, Palantir will be a business
 in which they do a lot of that upfront.
 You could also do that like kind of on the post-sale side
 in which like you first get something small,
 prove out value and then gradually work with them
 to continually solve more and more problems.
 We follow more in that motion in which like a lot of our
 long-term kind of partnerships emerge over time
 through doing a really great job,
 proving out value and then them coming and thinking
 of us hopefully increasingly as a thought partner
 in which we can help them continue to solve more problems
 that are like adjacent with this overall space for them.
 - It seems like one of the dreams
 in building a software business is if you can be
 your customers trusted confidant in and around your space
 and that they're constantly coming.
 When they think of a problem,
 they think of coming to you with that problem.
 And that's sort of how you get NRR
 that's sort of top in class, I think.
 - I think that's something to dream,
 but I think in practice, the hardest part of that
 is the connection back to engineering and product
 and design.
 Like the culture to support such a thing,
 'cause like if a customer comes to you and they're like,
 "Hey, this is a burning problem."
 Effectively, what that means is, yeah,
 the roadmap we had, ignore that.
 That's gone.
 Predictability's out the window.
 So it requires a culture that really is comfortable
 with that reactivity.
 And that's why I think like a lot of business in which
 if you start off with like a single proc motion,
 which is like, "Oh, feature this, feature that."
 And like every single quarter, you have like a very clear
 idea of this is exactly what this quarter will look like
 and this is what we're gonna wind up.
 That I think is why it becomes difficult for them
 to become this trusted confidant
 'cause you're never gonna move fast enough
 to actually seize on an opportunity they have.
 Like if a customer has a burning problem,
 they're not going to wait a quarter for you to go
 and like roadmap and plan is out for them.
 So that ends up carrying this motion
 in which like simultaneously if you're going into a deal,
 you have a huge opportunity, a huge enterprise deal,
 but won't batch that, you know, whatever your cycle planning,
 it length is, everything kind of falls apart.
 And so what does that mean for how you run roadmap
 and engineering at persona?
 I genuinely think almost every single thing that we build
 for one enterprise is almost always universally applicable.
 Maybe not to every single customer out there,
 but there is at least three, five,
 five, that's the opportunity.
 That one thing that we build benefits others.
 So I think that also helps a lot of folks
 kind of feel good about 'cause it's like not,
 we're just building one off solutions.
 More often than not, it's a generalizable thing
 that every single customer will benefit from,
 or at least like some subset,
 who are solving some type of problem, right?
 If we build like some sort of fraud solution here,
 it's a really generalizable fraud solution oftentimes.
 The second I think that helps with it a bit is,
 yeah, you have to know when to say no.
 Like sometimes, you know, it's like,
 we are just at capacity and understanding that is important
 because, you know, at the end of the day, knowing,
 I think a really core part of it is you just have to know
 where the company is sentiment morale.
 Like, you know, state of it is because it is really tempting
 if you're a confidant for all these companies,
 their laundry list of things that they can come to with
 is infinite.
 I mean, they have an infinite number of problems,
 which is great because that's a lot of opportunity
 for you to continually have ideas for your roadmap
 and on what you can build.
 But yeah, I think like burnout,
 like making it such that the company cannot scale,
 like not support everyone becomes a real problem too.
 And there's a lot of finite problems on scaling too,
 like how many kind of a people you can add
 because the platform gets ever increasingly complex
 onboarding continually, like without, you know,
 streamlining things and, you know, encapsulating things.
 I think we still had a lot of work, actually,
 a persona to do on these ends,
 but we are trying to be thoughtful and invest in it.
 Like the onboarding becomes ever more complex too,
 especially to learn about the entire platform
 and make it such that I think one of the bigger challenges,
 especially on the product side is,
 can you enable folks to be productive
 and be able to like build things
 without having to understand everything else?
 And I think that's both an architectural challenge
 as well as a product design challenge.
 - You've developed a very rare commercial sensibility
 as somebody that's super technical,
 starting a company for the first time.
 And as long as I can remember,
 you've been as interested and obsessed
 with go-to-market pricing and packaging, product strategy,
 as you are with building something
 that solves the needs of a customer.
 I'm interested in like,
 how did you develop those muscles?
 Like where did that come from?
 Was it something you were always curious about?
 Like you were the type of engineering manager
 that was curious about the whole business,
 and that allowed you to develop those sensibilities?
 - I've now seen it emerge a second time
 for a whole different function, which I'll share it to,
 but I think a lot of it was self-doubt,
 because I don't think,
 this is the thing I catch myself a lot on,
 and I think it's very natural for a lot of founders to do it,
 but I definitely am not like,
 while I was gonna say, it's like,
 I don't think I'm unique.
 I definitely felt prey to this,
 which is, it's really easy for myself to be like,
 "Hey, this is something I don't understand."
 And because I don't understand, it's probably not important.
 Actually, early, early on,
 I didn't care much about sales.
 In fact, I had told Dan, or a sales product person,
 this thing in which he was like,
 "You really need the most important thing
 for start with sales."
 He was giving me advice at that time.
 I was like, "And I have this whole perspective,"
 which I, "Oh my gosh, I hate myself for saying this.
 I can't believe I thought this way."
 It's like when you're 16,
 and you just can't believe how you thought,
 I think I had said something,
 if the product's good enough, people will buy it.
 - But that's still a lot of founders say that.
 - Yeah, and I mean, I was saying that,
 because I was like, I just don't need to learn about sales.
 I was trying to, I think at that time, the reason,
 in my head, I was saying it,
 because I think I genuinely part of me believed it.
 But the real reason, I think I said that,
 and again, the maybe this is all fueled by self-down,
 which is, I think I said that
 because I didn't want to learn about it.
 I felt as if I've gone far enough in life,
 on the technical side,
 that's the secret of being, to me,
 and where I've gone to,
 those things I don't need to understand.
 Yeah, just because I'm ignorant on it,
 it doesn't actually matter.
 That's probably what I was thinking at that time.
 Honestly, after having said that,
 I kinda caught, I think,
 whether I don't remember exactly how,
 but I was like, "Am I just trying
 to be intentionally ignorant to not learn something,
 just preserve my ego?"
 And then I was like, "Oh, maybe."
 And that became actually a huge insecurity,
 which I think helped me,
 at least want to understand it better.
 And I still don't think I'm very good at it.
 I haven't spent nearly enough years or time at it,
 but understand that I probably am actively trying to avoid it,
 has now made me almost over adjust
 into trying to be hyper-attentive towards it,
 and that can help.
 This has emerged, again,
 because there was a period in which,
 after this whole understand commercialization,
 the business side of things,
 I had a period in which I was like,
 I don't need to understand the financials,
 that this is doing well enough,
 the financials will prove themselves.
 Why do I need to understand these days?
 I check the markets all the time
 and try to understand how to think
 about value in companies, understand about multiples,
 and what's best in class,
 and are all just how do investors think about things?
 But there was a real period in which I was like,
 that knowledge is pointless.
 If a business is doing well enough,
 the proof is in the pudding.
 And I think actually,
 there's a lot of businesses at my stage right now,
 and founders who think the exact same thing.
 They're like, "Why do you have to understand
 the markets, why do you have to understand
 the investment in investor dynamics?"
 You need to focus on building a business
 and the business is good enough to prove itself.
 And I think that's just insane.
 So like, yeah, maybe you could get there,
 but why like be proud of your ignorance
 or something, like why aim to be ignorant?
 But I mean, I think that's crazy,
 'cause I think about that.
 I'm like, oh, the whole time,
 I was always under this impression of,
 oh no, I'm past that,
 ever since the whole go-to-market thing,
 I don't need to, I don't fall prey to that anymore.
 And I caught myself doing that for honestly,
 probably multiple years,
 in which I continue to think that way
 about like the financial side of things.
 And then you know,
 I'm like trying to deeply understand that a little better.
 But that's probably it,
 was like catching myself
 and realizing I was celebrating my ignorance.
 How did you learn about the commercial aspects
 of the business and develop sort of these sensibilities
 in a bunch of your,
 I find a lot of your most interesting thinking
 is around the commercial aspects of the business,
 as opposed to the technical aspects of the business.
 My technical thinking, sometimes pretty interesting.
 I'm not technical enough to know.
 So there's a bias here.
 No, that's actually all Charles these days.
 I don't think, honestly,
 these days actually, as I've understood this stuff better,
 I become a worse engineer,
 which kind of others that are sales force at, man.
 - Hey, I'm not,
 I haven't been doing that for a little bit.
 I got a little worse there too.
 I mean, part of it is the intention to learn
 but other ones like just,
 I get a lot of reps now on like deals, right?
 And like just obsessing over why we,
 like why this didn't work.
 Honestly, I think it's actually the core of almost becoming
 an expert on everything is to not oversimplify.
 I think like, you know,
 another thing I think I was very common within,
 or just an observation,
 I think about sometimes like so common within the valley
 for founders is the subsection of frameworks.
 You know, everyone loves like new frameworks
 and new ways to think about things.
 And I think like frameworks as a way
 to like expand your thinking is very hopeful.
 But more often than not,
 I find people using frameworks as a way
 to almost like constrict
 and like almost shortcut their thinking to be like,
 oh, of course, well, this framework says this.
 So, you know, the details don't matter anymore.
 And I actually see this a lot amongst engineers too,
 in which you apply like these wide generalizations
 to not find the understanding of a detail.
 And I think to master anything,
 the core of it's not like reducing something down
 to these like overly generalized frameworks or axioms,
 but rather to understand the nuance of why this worked
 in this case, but not in this case.
 And you see this, I mean, for professional sports too.
 Like I watching like some of these interviews with folks,
 like you find like the details
 that like professional athletes care about
 are usually so minute,
 you're just like,
 that's insane that you like obsessed over that small thing
 to find a to find an edge.
 But I think that's honestly like the trick of it is like,
 for me, for like having been on so many deals,
 obsessing over, why do we actually lose this?
 And why was it that the thing we did before
 did not work in this case?
 And I think if you continually think of things that way,
 I don't know if you become good,
 but you'll find a lot of like unique insights
 and those unique insights eventually will merge
 into at least a differentiator on it.
 - So to sort of expand on this,
 when you poke at the way that you think about building
 this as a platform business versus a point solution
 business, like what is the origin of that thinking?
 Where did you, how and where did you develop
 that way of thinking about the business?
 - I mean, the first one was this idea,
 I actually, I think I told about this to you
 like very, very early on was all these companies
 that we would like just constantly celebrate,
 they're so small in comparison to like these giants.
 And you've actually like, we think about that first chasm
 but like what about the second chasm
 and which like very few are able to cross that one too.
 And that original thought emerged from,
 was actually a joke, a bit self-deprecating of one.
 But I think when I was a square at the time,
 I was joking with someone once that we ever thought
 that all of our work at Square
 is smaller than Microsoft Word.
 Like everything we've done, all of our efforts,
 we're smaller than Microsoft Word.
 Like something not just smaller.
 I mean, a spec, a spec, right?
 Like, you know, like Microsoft Word is just a spec
 in Microsoft's universe.
 And it's like a spec of a spec.
 And I think at that time, we're joking about like,
 you know, the sci-fi movies in which you realize,
 I think it was like men in black or something,
 you realize your entire universe is actually
 the locker for someone or something like that.
 That original thinking was originally,
 like what led to this idea of,
 we celebrate all these specs and like,
 somehow we're not observing that none of these specs
 have like become this grand thing.
 And just, we're all praying that one day,
 we'll be able to become it and we have no idea how.
 We just think it'll happen.
 So it's almost like this idea.
 That's why I kind of, I think a lot of founders
 all say this of, oh, you have to be first principles minded.
 Like, how can you be a first principle thinker?
 But to me, a lot of it, if you translate in that another way,
 it's actually the avoidance of like generalize frameworks.
 And like just, you shouldn't,
 I mean, I think you should learn frameworks,
 but like the reliance on frameworks
 is really, I think, the underlying
 of what actually is more important there.
 'Cause first principles,
 I mean, everyone will say their first principles thinker.
 It's a very, you know, like of course,
 I think with like no bias.
 But, you know, then at the same time,
 oftentimes everyone who I hear is a first principle thinker,
 they're very into frameworks as well.
 And to me, there's some sort of inconsistency
 between the two there.
 But yeah, I mean, on that overall thought,
 I think a lot of it is like finding things
 that break the pattern, things in which like,
 whenever someone says, oh, course is the way to do things,
 trying to find the counter example,
 why is that just not the case?
 Another example, I can't remember who tweeted this,
 but I love this tweet so much.
 It was something about like great companies,
 hard, great people.
 The best companies can hire anyone.
 And when I read it, I was like,
 that is such a, you know, such a banger.
 It's so interesting.
 'Cause you know, again, that's another like Silicon Valley
 line, which is you just have to hire the best people,
 right?
 But if you look at like the biggest
 and the best companies out there,
 it feels like they can just hire anyone in the world
 and they'll make them kind of successful.
 And I remember, you know, like the subsequent tweets
 was like, the best companies can turn any person
 into ROI positive.
 Where it was like, you know, like great companies,
 you have to find someone who's like really good
 and like bamboozled them into like producing ROI for you.
 I mean, great companies, they don't care who you are.
 You're gonna find value anywhere.
 But it's like lines like that in which it inverts
 the thinking where like just frameworks that break the rule.
 You know, everyone talks about great culture,
 but like there's companies that don't have great culture.
 And I'm not saying you should build one without that,
 but like understanding the art of like building
 a great business oftentimes is everywhere.
 It's not like the set frameworks.
 It's like the combination of all these things
 that come together that creates something really unique
 that all seem to just click and work together.
 - What does it actually look like
 as you're trying to learn and figure these things out?
 Is it mostly studying other companies?
 Is it finding people in these sub disciplines
 who actually have generative sort of original thinking
 or first principles thinking?
 What are all the inputs to sort of the output being,
 we're gonna build our platform in this way
 or we're gonna do this versus that?
 - You know, honestly, I think it's not the latter.
 I'm notoriously bad at like finding mentorship.
 I've tried many times.
 I mean, you always hear like these stories
 of like these great mentorship ones
 and stories of like, oh, they help develop each other
 for so many years.
 I'm just so bad at it.
 Like, I mean, it was a huge insecurity
 when I was at school.
 And there was a period when I was like,
 acting, trying to reach out to people.
 But I'm gonna be like a bad mentee
 and I don't know how to like engage them so awkward
 and I couldn't figure out, you know, how to ask them.
 I feel as I'm wasting their time too.
 And I don't understand why they would want to talk to me.
 So I've never been good at that.
 Even today, like, you know, when I want to go out
 and ask someone for advice, I'm terrible
 at going out there and asking.
 Like, unless like the question's very pointed,
 I know exactly what I want out of them.
 Like asking general feedback has not been effective,
 at least for me personally.
 I've seen a lot of people who are so good at that.
 And I honestly think that many founders,
 by nature, tend to be folks who are better at that,
 but I'm not and I've never been.
 It's more so the former.
 And I think in like going out
 and like just trying to find the counter example,
 I think a lot of that honestly is fueled by almost a,
 I like to tell folks, I'm a kind, contrary,
 I'm pretty nice about it.
 But like, I like to prove that there are people
 wrong in some ways here.
 Or find something in which like,
 it doesn't quite make sense exactly what they're saying.
 It's oftentimes trying to find whatever
 that doesn't meet kind of like what we're all, you know,
 what we're saying here.
 Just to show that like, whatever the problem is,
 it's more nuanced, the more complex
 and there probably is a hidden variable
 that we're being overly generalized about.
 For companies, it'd be like, whenever people are saying,
 like, hey, this is the strategy,
 like finding something that's the exact opposite,
 whatever that may be that does not match the pattern
 of the strategy everyone else is saying, you know,
 a product building or strategy or like roadmap
 or anything, it's like, can you find something
 which it doesn't operate that way
 and it's still massively successful and or, you know,
 otherwise.
 - Most people say just focus on your customer
 and ignore the competition.
 I think that's another thing that you think
 is just immensely incorrect.
 Maybe you could talk a little bit about that.
 - It's like honestly tied to the thing kind of earlier
 of like, it just feels like intentional ignorance.
 I get like the perspective where it's like,
 oh, you know, then their bias or thinking,
 but I mean, gosh, if you have to like bias,
 you know, like protect yourself from bias
 by like putting on blinders, that just seems insane.
 It's like, I have to cover up my eyes about way.
 You know, I can like actually have creative thought.
 That just seems bad, right?
 I don't know.
 It doesn't make too much sense to me.
 I think the competitor obsession is bad.
 I suspect where that advice originated from
 is probably it's really easy to be sucked
 into just being obsessed with what competitors doing
 because, you know, like just the competitive nature
 of building startups, like there's this natural pool
 towards constantly watching everyone else.
 I mean, I kind of like feel a subset of that too.
 Even like for non competitors,
 like you hear all this fundraising news,
 this company is going faster than you.
 And like, no matter what, like this whole space
 is fueled by insecurity of some way, shape or form.
 So I bet that original advice,
 like if you obsess too much on competitors,
 you'll just get sucked into a hole
 and never think about your company.
 But again, I think like you need a certain level of maturity
 and like in which you can just pull yourself out that
 for the same of like not paying too much attention
 to, you know, other fundraising advice,
 but still learning about like, hey,
 this is the story they told that was kind of really effective
 and trying to pull out things that you can learn from that.
 For competitors, I think it's the same thing in which,
 in every single space, especially if it's competitive space,
 everyone's trying to solve this problem together.
 There is almost a pseudo collaborative kind of nature
 in which every single person, at the end of the day,
 if you can pull back the idea that like it is a finite,
 you know, like kind of a zero something,
 we're all trying to solve the same world problems out there.
 And in that sense, there's a kind of collaborative nature
 of it learning from others.
 I think it's important to me, it'd be the equivalent of saying,
 I don't read kind of like, you know,
 I'm a PhD who doesn't read other papers.
 I don't like to understand.
 I like to rediscover calculus on my own, you know, new to,
 that guy's, you know, poisoned my thoughts too much.
 And now I can't think of, you know, non-Newtonian calculate.
 I think that's just sounds insane.
 So I think like a lot more for every single company
 you're building on the shoulder of giants,
 it's just a question of like,
 can you learn the things that are important?
 And I think for competitors,
 it's absolutely one of those things
 in which they're the ones who are the closest
 to your problem as well.
 And you should absolutely be looking at what prior artists
 or you know, the state of the art on their end.
 How do you actually action on that?
 Or what does it look like to not be competitor obsessed,
 but to be competitor and formed
 or aware of what they're doing?
 What does it actually look like for you as the CEO
 of the business, maybe, you know, over the last six plus years?
 Well, so in the earliest, it's different
 in the earliest days to where it's at now.
 The earliest days, a lot of it, frankly,
 was just reading about everything
 on every single competitor just to understand like,
 are we doing some that someone else already has done, right?
 I think it's honestly a little bit similar probably to,
 I have a couple of close friends in academia.
 It's kind of similar to the academic process
 in which just finding a problem that like some other person,
 some other PhD hasn't done already,
 it's really hard in practice.
 So oftentimes for the PhD,
 the first whole bit of it is just understanding the state
 of the art, like the prom space you're in,
 to find something different that no one else
 has really kind of tried to do already.
 So I think in the earliest days, it was that,
 like trying to find every single approach
 as many of them as possible.
 Understand that, hey, this one might have not worked
 for X, Y, or Z reasons, whether timing or approach
 or team dynamics, who knows what,
 but just calling through as much
 of like the overall space as possible
 so you can at least develop a unique perspective.
 And I think for a lot of early stage founders,
 that part they don't like because it's really disheartening
 because you realize quickly that it's hard
 to have unique ideas out there.
 Like almost every idea you've had someone tried
 in some way, shape, or form,
 and your final like unique idea,
 again, mentioning academia as an example.
 One of my friends, close friends has said pretty much
 like the final idea you end up with and academia
 ends up being like just minutely different
 from the last one, like it is so hard to push,
 especially for like popular spaces,
 like AI research, it's hard to come up
 with super novel ideas back in the day.
 I mean these days you're in a whole golden age,
 but back in the day it was hard.
 So I think that's like in the early days,
 I think like these days is a lot more
 just keeping informed on like,
 hey, this is like a cool thing someone's doing right now.
 And like, you know, it's working to some degree,
 but there's maybe some challenges there.
 And, you know, is this something that we should
 either be looking at from partnering with them,
 or, you know, building something that's competitive
 because we believe a different approach
 might be more effective.
 Would this be something that's effective
 but then our market segment?
 And I think even looking at Jason Industries
 is really important.
 I oftentimes tell folks that a lot of our learnings
 these days is not from like, you know,
 just like identity verification companies
 or cybersecurity.
 Like cybersecurity has a long, long history
 of thread detection and like it's fundamentally
 in this bad actor kind of, you know,
 detection of bad actor game.
 There's a lot of philosophies there
 that I think a lot of folks and identity,
 the identity space oftentimes just doesn't look at.
 And they think of it more as like an adjacent space
 that's not really tied to it.
 And I mean, I think it's a lot about that.
 It's just like keeping informed
 on like, what's kind of going on.
 In a way, I would kind of almost give the analogy
 of like, it's the evolution from being a PhD soon,
 trying to write your thesis into becoming
 more of a professor in which like,
 trying to master and just stay up to date
 of all the kind of new innovations happening.
 - Do you have sort of higher order thoughts
 on what makes markets well set up for a startup
 to go after and has the chance to build
 a very large business versus markets
 that tend to be more challenging?
 Is there a dominant strategy that allows a company
 to get outside of that stranglehold of,
 I guess it's competition or sort of something else?
 - So honestly, I think tech as a whole,
 like just the startup market these days
 is so wildly competitive.
 No matter what you pick anymore.
 Like, I thought a lot about like,
 why is technology so hard now?
 And like, I do think, I mean, as someone who like,
 kind of entered the tech space in like the early 2010s,
 to now technology is wildly competitive.
 I think a couple of things have changed things.
 The first of which is we're at the kind of tail end
 of be smartphone, you know, innovation cycle
 of like just amplify everything.
 And there's some app for it all.
 Like, everyone's tried everything.
 Second, there's so many more engineers now.
 Like, engineering used to be a scarce resource.
 I don't think that's the case anymore.
 Not to mention, I mean, AI is making everyone
 be even more capable than ever.
 Watching some of the junior engineers,
 how fast they develop now.
 Like, engineers are so quick on developing.
 I feel as if, there's engineers in which it took,
 you know, I've spent 10 years at it.
 I mean, in two, three years,
 they're already caught up to me.
 And I think that's just crazy of how fast
 like people are growing now.
 So engineering, I don't think it's the scarce resource
 anymore.
 And I think the cloud has changed everything.
 I mean, back in the day, like capital became
 a huge constraint to prevent companies from emerging.
 Now, you know, as long as you have the cloud,
 you have the opportunity.
 I think some of that might be the thesis of first round.
 That's all that happened now, right?
 So these days, I think every market's hard though,
 as honestly might take.
 I think effectively building a start breaks down
 to one of three categories.
 And those three categories is either number one,
 it's a brand new technology.
 And you're going to just compete with every other company
 trying to figure out how to like, you know,
 like, you know, take advantage of this technology.
 I mean, AI was this, there was blockchain prior to that.
 And I mean, for AI, there are so, no matter how you look
 at an application of an agent, no matter how insane,
 here is someone else also doing it.
 And they are just as eager, just as excited,
 working just as hard.
 I mean, I hear how hard some of these like AI companies
 are working now and it's crazy.
 I mean, they are, it is so, so, so competitive.
 And you see all of them kind of going at it.
 We saw the same kind of emerging blockings,
 there's so much talent.
 The second kind of category, I think,
 that you have to go down.
 Figma is my favorite example of this.
 It's a company in which you effectively compete
 against a giant that just, it seems insane
 to compete against that giant.
 To me, you know, it would be like saying,
 I'm going to like redo Google Docs
 or like beat Microsoft Word at their own game, right?
 And there are a couple of companies that have notions
 done that, Figma has done that,
 in which it's a huge upfront investment.
 And you're going to go on that journey
 and believe that with your under-resourced kind of product,
 you will be able to eventually take on something
 that has infinite more resources than you.
 And that's a really tough game,
 because I think it's like,
 usually those types of products across like four, five,
 here kind of like heads down to that kind of thing.
 You'll go at it.
 I think the third category is the category
 and which is a legacy space in which there's a bunch
 of competitors, so many competitors.
 Everyone's still been at it for a long time
 and you will out execute.
 But the underlying theme for all of these,
 the execution has become more important than ever.
 And it's not so much about like idea discovery
 or like untapped market discovery anymore.
 It's just a question of pick your poise
 not how difficult, you know, it will be.
 But I think every space now is really challenging.
 What is execution?
 Like, I feel like it's a word that,
 oh, they just got out executed.
 What does it mean?
 Honestly, I would say it's just time investment
 plus like a time investment ability of like, you know,
 quality of kind of output plus time investment.
 And generally now you need both.
 You need like, you know, quality ideas, quality,
 kind of output of whatever form.
 And now I think it's just incredibly high time investment.
 And like, I think time, like investment of time
 of how hard are you working in comparison
 to someone else is just real, like you have to.
 Like if you're, you know, I, you can, in the past,
 I think there were just weren't so many competitors
 in every single space.
 Oftentimes the overtime shift and adapt to their own lane.
 But these days, I mean,
 you almost always have a borderline direct competitive one
 in which there's a very strong pressure
 in which you have to find edge some way.
 Maybe your output of ideas is just consistently better
 than someone else.
 I think that's tough.
 Everyone's so talented.
 Now there's again, no more scarcity of inputs anymore
 that it's usually more so like just time investment's hard.
 So I think almost every market is challenging now.
 And then at the end of the day, like,
 even if you invest the same time,
 then just becomes who has like consistently better,
 higher quality ideas at a faster clip.
 And it's more adaptive than you.
 - Now that you're six plus years into this,
 are there things that you haven't shared
 that you just think for other people,
 the engineering manager at company X or company Y
 that's starting to build a company,
 are just things that you figured out
 that might be worthy of them thinking about
 that might be useful in their journey
 and kind of going negative one to one.
 - So I met with Kareem from clay yesterday,
 and we both isolate on one thing
 'cause I actually asked him for some advice too.
 'Cause I think Kareem's journey is truly, truly incredible.
 And like, you know, just to give a recap of it.
 Clay, I mean, right before we were talking,
 like they didn't start off with the product they have now.
 And unlike for many other startups,
 they went through constant iteration,
 a lot of discovery, before they finally like just overnight
 found like the fit and it all worked out.
 But like even all the technology,
 there are a lot of things they built,
 plus like the cultural learnings and everything.
 That took, I mean, six years plus,
 probably just like lay the foundation there.
 And when I'd asked Kareem at that point,
 like what'd you get through it?
 Like that seems insane.
 I mean, I don't think I have the,
 I don't have the mental durability to last like that.
 And I think he shared something about,
 it's a lot about the journey itself.
 Like he's like, I just asked myself over here,
 am I still having a good time?
 Do I still like doing this?
 The reason why I'm doing it is it's still why I'm doing it.
 And if I were to give advice on it's like,
 trying to think about like,
 especially early on, it's so tempting,
 always thinking about like,
 there's the destination gonna be,
 what does the destination look like?
 And I oftentimes think people who are really obsessed
 on like the destination of things,
 they oftentimes really struggle the most as a founder.
 There's like almost a weird aspect in which like
 a lot of founders tend, I mean, not all,
 there's always exceptions to rule,
 but like one thing for a lot of founders is
 that they have a tendency in which maybe they're,
 maybe like a less planning oriented,
 that's not like always clear exactly where things are going.
 Why there might be a little bit of, you know,
 like a spontaneity or like the thinking of it all.
 I think that the reason why that someone exists
 is that folks who want to know what's next,
 it will be really hard.
 And like, and especially if you are always trying to plan out,
 I will do this and then this will, you know,
 this is what I'll gain from it
 and this is what's going to happen next.
 I'm the star journey becomes so tough.
 I mean, that's why I'm so impressed by Kareem oftentimes
 'cause like I think those six years,
 you're constantly wondering like,
 oh, this goes nowhere, like what am I gonna do next?
 You have to exhaust all those thoughts
 and just not think about it.
 And some people are so maniacal about wanting company,
 they can just ignore all those.
 But for many, I think it's a very tempting thought
 of like, oh, shoot, if this all fails,
 like what's next and like at six years,
 what I'm, how am I gonna explain it?
 That's hard.
 I think the way to get past that really has to be like,
 understanding like really taking the journey
 for what it is.
 That's what I've kind of found out of all this is.
 For me, where I've derived a lot of the meaning
 of the journey is from all these folks who've,
 I've had the opportunity to work with for so long
 but also see their lives evolve as a result of this business
 from seeing folks have multiple kids now
 from seeing folks get married, from seeing friendships emerge
 and like best friendships of like May years seeing all that
 and realizing that this business has been the vehicle
 to enable that has at least made this very fulfilling
 for me and you know, continues to feel like making me
 want to protect and make this thing continue a thing
 to create all these dynamics outside of work, frankly,
 that have become really meaningful to me.
 Who's the person that's had the biggest
 outsized impact on the way that you built the company
 and left things, you know, and part of things on you
 that's sort of a big part of the way that you build the company
 and I thought maybe I could point you to somebody
 to talk about because he doesn't get a lot of air time
 which is Charles who's been kind of your co-conspirator
 and other half in this company.
 Maybe you could talk about him and kind of
 what's unique about him and what he's taught you
 or infused into the company.
 - I think Charles is really the heart and soul
 of the business more so than I.
 The thing about Charles, I think, like beyond like being
 like like theater natural like a technical talent
 and I really think even today I think people under rate him
 and how technically like excellent he is.
 I mean, truly like a person, you know, I think,
 especially for engineers, they'll know is Evan Wallace
 over at Figma, like that guy's an unnaturally good
 like engineer, like truly one of a kind.
 I think of Charles in a very, very similar class.
 I just think he's like just not as public
 and his humility under like to such a degree almost
 will make it hard to ever, ever arrest, you know,
 like to over rate him, he's incredible in that.
 And but I think, I mean, look, I've known Guy for so long.
 I don't know which part of his, it's either,
 he's not aware of how incredibly talented he is,
 which it could be.
 I mean, that's, you know, he's,
 I think actually probably my understanding Charles now
 is he doesn't care.
 He genuinely doesn't care about like,
 he's not about like how good he is.
 He doesn't care about what other people,
 how, how he stack ranks or compares to others.
 I think his great talent is actually,
 he just wants to do great things
 'cause he enjoys doing things well.
 And like there's such a purity of taste
 and like just wanting to build something great
 because of nothing else.
 No final thing.
 Just I want to be good at something
 and it means something to me.
 And I think that unleashes such a creativity
 and how he approaches problem at fearlessness
 of like whether he's right or wrong,
 he doesn't care about it.
 I'm guilty of all these things.
 I mean, I've shared so many of like just my own
 in secures and reflections of how so many of my decisions,
 despite me trying to rationalize and pretend
 is if it's something different.
 It's fundamentally driven by, you know,
 some like much deeper insecurity or perspective on myself,
 especially as I reflect on him.
 Sure, it's happening even today.
 Charles, I've never feel that's really been the case.
 Like for him, whenever he realized something
 it's purely off that intellectual understanding of it.
 And I mean, many people I person often say this,
 like Charles has achieved a certain zen
 that I mean all of this aspires towards, you know,
 sometimes I think people think I'm very cynical
 which frankly I am.
 Charles for me gives me that hope that like,
 it's very pure as form of like,
 if you're able to achieve and understand it all
 and like have that zen, people fundamentally are good
 and unbelievably kind,
 he makes me feel that way all the time.
 I mean, he's one of my best friends,
 continue to talk every single day.
 I haven't gotten tired of the guy.
 I'm pretty sure he's tired of me.
 I'm talking about, but he's too zan to act.
 - Exactly.
 - It's perfect to know now, right?
 Like, you know, oh my gosh.
 And he deals a lot from me.
 You know, I'm trying to contain the multitude
 of my emotions and just, you know, like public.
 But yeah, I think he never understands
 just unbelievably how rare he is.
 I think everyone feels that way about him.
 - Great place to earn.
 Thanks, Rick.
 (gentle music)
 (gentle music)
 (gentle music)
