--- METADATA START ---
Show: Lenny's Podcast: Product | Growth | Career
Episode: Growth tactics from OpenAI and…
Host: Lenny Rachitsky
GUESTS: Krithika Shankaraman 
Guests: Krithika Shankaraman
Source URL: https://podcasts.apple.com/us/podcast/growth-tactics-from-openai-and-stripes-first-marketer/id1627920305?i=1000709777370
--- METADATA END ---

1
It seems like there's a playbook for everything, there's a framework for everything.
2
But the reality is you have to spend the hours and the time to really understand your customer.
3
You were the first marketing hire at OpenAI.
4
I believe ChatGPT is the fastest growing product in history.
5
Let me ask you this.
6
A lot of people might be hearing like, oh, ChatGPT, it's like, why do you need marketing?
7
Everyone knew of ChatGPT, but when you clicked one Zoom level further, the thing that came up was, I don't know what to use it for.
8
The work of marketing ended up becoming creating this sort of use case epiphany where people could say, I had no idea ChatGPT could do that.
9
A lot of marketing metrics tend to be vanity metrics about the number of clicks that you got, number of views, number of impressions.
10
I think those are all bullshit numbers.
11
What is that experience that you want your customers to come away with when they interact with your brand?
12
If your advice is don't just copy what other companies do, what should people be doing?
13
Today, they're like a four-step process that has served me pretty well.
14
The first step here is today, my guest is Krithika Shankaraman.
15
Krithika was the first marketing hire and VP of marketing at OpenAI, the first marketing hire at Stripe, where she was the only marketing person for three years.
16
She was also an early marketing leader at Retool and at Dropbox.
17
She also did marketing for Android at Google.
18
Currently, she's executive in residence at Thrive Capital, where she supports their portfolio and founders on all things marketing and helps hire early marketing leaders for their startups.
19
In our conversation, we talk through all of the biggest lessons that she has learned about how to market your product from her time at OpenAI, Stripe, Retool, Dropbox, and other places, including her four-step diagnostic approach to marketing, her anti-playbook playbook, what B2B companies can learn from consumer marketing, career advice for people looking to get into marketing, and also just what people that don't want to get into marketing should know about marketing to be successful.
20
A big thank you to Kevin Garcia and Kelly Sims for suggesting questions and stories to get into.
21
If you enjoy this podcast, don't forget to subscribe and follow it in your favorite podcasting app or YouTube.
22
Also, if you become an annual subscriber of my newsletter, you get a year-free.
23
Check it out at lennysnewsletter.com and click Bundle.
24
With that, I bring you Krithika Shankar Ram.
25
This episode is brought to you by EPPO.
26
Eppo is a next-generation A-B testing and feature management platform built by alums of Airbnb and Snowflake for modern growth teams.
27
Companies like Twitch, Miro, ClickUp, and DraftKings rely on Eppo to power their experiments.
28
Experimentation is increasingly essential for driving growth and for understanding the performance of new features.
29
And Eppo helps you increase experimentation velocity while unlocking rigorous deep analysis in a way that no other commercial tool does.
30
When I was at Airbnb, one of the things that I loved most was our experimentation platform, where I could set up experiments easily, troubleshoot issues, and analyze performance all on my own.
31
Eppo does all that and more with advanced statistical methods that can help you shave weeks off experiment time, an accessible UI for diving deeper into performance, and out-of-the-box reporting that helps you avoid annoying, prolonged analytic cycles.
32
Eppo also makes it easy for you to share experiment insights with your team, sparking new ideas for the A-B testing flywheel.
33
Eppo powers experimentation across every use case, including product, growth, machine learning, monetization, and email marketing.
34
Check out EPO at geteppo.com slash Lenny and 10x your experiment velocity.
35
That's get eppo.com/slash lenny.
36
This episode is brought to you by Airtable Product Central, the unified system that brings your entire product org together in one place.
37
No more scattered tools, no more misaligned teams.
38
If you're like most product leaders, you're tired of constant context switching between tools.
39
That's why Airtable built Product Central after decades of working with world-class product companies.
40
Think of it as mission control for your entire product organization.
41
Unlike rigid point solutions, Product Central powers everything from resourcing to voice of customer to road mapping to launch execution.
42
And because it's built on Airtable's no-code platform, you can customize every workflow to match exactly how your team works.
43
No limitations, no compromises.
44
Ready to see it in action?
45
Head to Airtable.com slash Lenny to book a demo.
46
That's Airtable.com slash Lenny.
47
Krithika, thank you so much for being here and welcome to the podcast.
48
Thank you so much for having me.
49
I'm excited to be chatting.
50
So you were an early and the first marketing hire at some of the most iconic companies in the world.
51
What I want to do with our chat today is basically go through a lot of these companies that you've worked at and see what lessons we can extract about your time leading marketing at these companies.
52
And I want to start with OpenAI, no big deal.
53
You were the first marketing hire at OpenAI.
54
Things seem to have gone really well over there.
55
I believe ChatGPT is the fastest growing product in history.
56
Does that resonate?
57
It does, not that I can take credit for it.
58
Well, we'll talk about that.
59
Either way, nice job.
60
Let me ask you this.
61
A lot of people might be hearing like, oh, ChatGPT, it's like, why do you need marketing?
62
It's like the most magical thing in the history of the world.
63
Like, how much value does anything add to making it as successful?
64
You just talk about just like the value that a marketing person adds to a product like that.
65
That's already incredible.
66
Yeah, when you think about all the different stages of the funnel, awareness was clearly not the thing that came up was, I don't know what to use it for.
67
Like, I don't know what it replaces.
68
Like, should I be using search for this?
69
Should I be using ChatGPT for this?
70
Or how can it even help me?
71
And so, the work of marketing ended up becoming creating this sort of use case epiphany where people could say, I had no idea ChatGPT could do that.
72
And yeah, maybe I should be using it for XYZ reason in my own life.
73
And so I think you have to be very diagnostic in terms of what can marketing be doing to help rather than just going off of the typical top of funnel and then middle of funnel and conversion-oriented tactics that end up being in the playbook.
74
So, for folks that listen to this podcast, it's a lot of product managers, product builders, a lot of them don't have a lot of experience with marketing.
75
I think it's an important insight there of just like this is a thing marketing can help you with, is helping people understand how to use your product, understand use cases, understand examples, things like that.
76
So, I think as we go through this, I think this is useful for folks to understand of like, here's what you may not be good at and may need marketing help with.
77
Yeah, when done right, product management and product marketing should be best friends, right?
78
And you're working together at every stage of product development, rather than thinking of it as a handoff at the end of the conveyor belt when the product's been built, you sort of hand it off to marketing to take it out the door.
79
If you can think of it as sort of a three-legged race from the very beginning of product development, then you go to market with the right thing in the first place.
80
You get these insights from customers, you hear the language that they're using, which can be the sort of cheat code for how to message and position the product and market.
81
And of course, there's like a creativity angle on how to differentiate your product in the market, but ideally, you're doing that in lockstep with the product management side.
82
The other element of ChatGPT's marketing success, I know that you spent a lot of time on the enterprise side, is just like consumer-ish marketing tactics for enterprise-y products.
83
Can you just talk about that?
84
And it feels like that's emerging more and more, just like consumer tactics for enterprise products.
85
In typical organizations that I've been a part of and leading marketing for, the enterprise side of the house, the B2B side of the house, usually fits the mold of demand generation, where you're creating demand for the sales team and you're bringing new customers and prospects into the fold and into the orbit of the company.
86
That, again, was not the problem at OpenAI.
87
When we turned on the contact sales form for ChatGPT Enterprise, which was one of my first launches at the company, our lead volume 40x'd overnight.
88
It was unanticipated, even beyond our wildest expectations.
89
And so, some of the things that I had to do are not typical to marketing at all.
90
Like, I sat down with ChatGPT and I coded up a Python script that ended up functioning as our first lead qualification, lead scoring model that was used in production for way too long, longer than I'd cared to admit.
91
It's so funny.
92
I think about when ChatGPT first launched, an OpenAI just launched, everyone is like, How will you make money?
93
How do you make money with something like this chat bot that's pretty interesting, like smart, but sort of not that smart?
94
I remember there's a video of Sam Altman being asked, How do you make money with something like this?
95
And he's, I don't know if you even saw this, he just, at some point, we will ask ChatGPT, how do we make money?
96
And I think the reality is it's not a solved problem.
97
And a lot of folks and a lot of companies in the AI domain are trying to figure out the right pricing model.
98
And it's something that you've talked about in your newsletter and so on.
99
But there is a value creation aspect to using AI that doesn't kind of neatly fit the mold of SaaS-based pricing or seat-based pricing or even usage-based pricing.
100
So I think there are still some frontiers to figuring out where is the value, how do different types of organizations and companies and consumers find value.
101
And again, it's not the typical sort of KPIs that you would typically try to optimize and maximize.
102
I will say, though, in terms of pricing, it feels like ChatGPT, it's like it works.
103
It's just like a monthly fee, talk to it up to a certain limit.
104
It's wild to think back now there was a sense we will, we have no idea how we'll just make money.
105
Like now it seems so obvious.
106
Truly was a research preview.
107
And I remember, Sam, only just launched here.
108
Check out this chat thing that we are trying with.
109
And then it's just the fastest product growth in history, no big deal.
110
I want to come back to this point you made about this playbook, anti-playbook kind of thinking.
111
You've kind of pointed out that with ChatGPT and OpenAI, there was no playbook, and you find that often people following playbooks don't work.
112
Talk about that insight.
113
In my current role and in my career, I've spoken with a lot of founders.
114
And typically, the founders reach out because I've worked at companies that they look up to and they're looking for that playbook.
115
They're looking for, hey, just like, tell me how Stripe did it, tell me how Retool did it, tell me how OpenAI did it.
116
And I really hesitate to share any such detail because there is a combination of context, competitive landscape, and the overall sort of zeitgeist of when the company is operating, how the company is operating, that really adds a lot of nuance to what works in the market.
117
And so doing the same things, like if you're not paying enough attention to the inputs and sort of what were the variables and the deciding factors which led to that strategy in the first place.
118
So, what I like to do is try to unpack more of a framework for how do you get to become more of a diagnostician to understand the right strategy or tactic in the first place, rather than saying, How do you copy something that led someone else to success?
119
Because those criteria may not apply to you at all.
120
So, let's follow that thread because everyone's like, God damn, I need a playbook, just tell me how to do this.
121
Okay, so if there's no playbooks, that you like, if your advice is don't just copy what other companies do that have done well, what should people be doing?
122
How do they approach figuring out how to market their product and help it grow faster?
123
Yeah, so I was an engineer before I became a marketer, and so I have brought a little bit of an engineer's framework to the marketing side of the house.
124
And so, something that I've tried to do is put together like a four-step process that has served me pretty well.
125
So, the first step here is diagnosing, so diagnosing the actual problem.
126
Again, this usually means taking a Zoom back when a founder comes and asks, Hey, we really need to hire a demand-gen leader.
127
Like, who do you know in your network that we should be thinking about?
128
And I'm like, Let's talk about your funnel.
129
Do you have a lot of people coming in at the top of the funnel?
130
And when they do come in at the top of the funnel and you start talking to them and having a sales conversation, how likely is it that you close them?
131
How likely is it that you win that deal?
132
That usually tells you very astutely: do you have product market fit?
133
Like, once you're already in the room and people are converting, you have found that problem statement that is critical to them, that is hurting them the most, and your solution is resonating as a solve to that problem.
134
And so that means, yes, probably throwing in more at the top of the funnel is a very good move to make at that time.
135
But on the other hand, if you say, yeah, I mean, like, we get a lot of interest, but once they're in the room, they have a bunch of questions, they're asking about, you know, how do you compare to X competitor and Y competitor, and why does it cost so much, and et cetera, et cetera, that probably means that there's more to be done in the product market fit zone rather than throwing in more at the top of the funnel because you have a leaky funnel in the bottom.
136
And so hiring a demand generator, maybe the worst thing that you can do versus thinking about more of a product marketer who's thinking about the competitive differentiation, the positioning, the sales enablement that gets more people through at the bottom.
137
So that's that diagnostic step at the top.
138
Second to me is like analyzing your competitors' approaches.
139
So to me, this is not about like being super laser focused on your competition because that leads to these local maxima rather than thinking about phase shift changes and breakthroughs that you can make as a company.
140
But when you analyze your competitors' approaches, evaluating what others do in the space can kind of give you a useful baseline and identify opportunities and gaps and niches that your company can take in instead.
141
And then this is the critical step, the next one, is you have to intentionally take a different path than what everyone else is doing.
142
And so driving a strategy that sort of sets the company apart is really critically important.
143
I think it's so core to the discipline of marketing, ensuring that differentiation in the market.
144
And you don't have to go into a cave to come up with these ideas and strategies.
145
You can usually go and look at domains that are far outside of your own rather than your direct competitors and come up with some great ideas that you can cross-apply and bring in and steal into your own domain or vertical instead.
146
And then the final piece is just experiment, test, validate all of that, and then scale what works and kind of discard what doesn't.
147
So you really have to have a lot of that ability to throw away work when you might have spent a ton of calories on this wonderful piece of content.
148
But if it's not working, don't double down on it.
149
Like that bias of sunk, the sunk cost fallacy really comes into play, especially when you've poured your heart and soul into creating artifacts for marketing.
150
So experiment, test, validate, give people that psychological safety to fail, especially your teams and organizations.
151
And then yeah, once you find what works, really double down on it.
152
Let me summarize what you just shared here.
153
So essentially, if you think you're like, I need help with marketing or I have a problem and I think I'm going to, I need to hire a demand gen person or a paid growth person or SEO person or, I don't know, content writer or something like that, before you do that, first of all, go through these four steps.
154
So step one is diagnose, spend time understanding what's the specific problem you want to solve.
155
Then analyze.
156
This is so interesting.
157
I've never heard it this way.
158
So then it's analyze what your competition is doing so that you can then, one, find inspiration and see where gaps exist.
159
And then sounds like the core part of it is just make sure you differentiate and choose a different path versus just try to be the better thing or the cheaper thing.
160
And then the final piece is just like, okay, here's our path.
161
Let's test, run some small scale tests and see if this is going to work.
162
I'm a marketer through and through now.
163
So, I mean, you've got diagnose, D, analyze A.
164
Beautiful.
165
Okay, we got a new framework.
166
Hat off the presses.
167
I love it.
168
Date.
169
Okay, so with differentiation, what's your thoughts on saying you're just a lot better or a lot cheaper?
170
Being cheaper is a race to the bottom, especially when you think about sort of scaling laws and how things are playing out.
171
Every company is sort of becoming an AI company at this time.
172
And so as models get cheaper and more capable, being cheaper is not going to be the thing that really is a durable approach in the market.
173
And I think in terms of doing things differently, it's not just for the sake of it.
174
I think it's really that novelty and that differentiation is something that people are craving for.
175
They're not looking for yet another tool in the market.
176
They are looking for something that aligns with their values, aligns with what their goals are.
177
And so if you can be really crisp on understanding the user need, understanding what is the problem space in which they're operating, I think that kind of one-two punch of a fantastic product experience and then the marketing experience to match can be a superpower for your company.
178
Awesome.
179
Okay, so let's go through an example of a company you did this with.
180
And this may take us to another company you worked at and the stories there.
181
Yeah, one that comes to mind is definitely Retool.
182
Retool was very different from both my experiences at Stripe and at OpenAI because both Stripe and OpenAI, for better or for worse, were inbound companies, right?
183
There was so much latent demand that we were fighting off people breaking down the door trying to get to our products.
184
With Retool, marketing was between the company and revenue, and we have fantastic product market fit with the enterprise space, with the developer community.
185
And so, how do we go out and not just like wait inside of our house waiting for people to knock down the door, but rather step outside of our house and start introducing ourselves to the neighborhood?
186
So, thinking about outbound channels and building demand engines was the name of the game.
187
And here, you know, one of the ways to think about that is: hey, should we just scale the paid marketing channels that we already have working for us?
188
And that's when the diagnostic really came into play, which is what are the leads that are coming through the funnel?
189
Are they turning into sales-qualified opportunities?
190
What kind of pipeline are they driving?
191
A lot of marketing metrics, again, tend to be vanity metrics.
192
They tend to be about the number of clicks that you got, number of views that a tweet got, number of impressions.
193
I think those are all bullshit numbers.
194
Like, really, what you want to be looking at is your impact on either sign-ups if you're a self-served product, PLG, or in terms of a B2B company, sales leads and revenue that you're driving, pipeline, and opportunity that you're driving.
195
So, we diagnosed that, and we found that for the most part, our paid social channels were doing not much for us.
196
And so, we had to invest in new engines.
197
So, that was that diagnostic.
198
When we looked at some of the competitors, you know, we saw that they were doing a lot of content marketing, they were doing a lot of events programming, and we could have kind of followed in those footsteps, but there was the ability to take a different path.
199
And so, what we decided to do was double down on customer marketing and customer storytelling because the thing that differentiated Retool from a lot of the copycat competitors in the market was that we had terrific traction with true enterprises who were paying for the product, who believed in the product.
200
And no other company could replicate the kind of customers that Retool had in its bench.
201
So we wanted to make sure that we were using those logos, we were using those companies to the best impact possible.
202
And then we experimented.
203
We tried to put together webinars, different types of sales dinners, different type of event formats to see what actually worked best for us and scaled the ones that worked and discarded the ones that didn't.
204
Okay, there's so much here.
205
So in the diagnosed up, I think it kind of a between the lines piece of advice here is look at what's already working.
206
So you looked at, okay, maybe paid growth, maybe this, maybe that, and then it's like, okay, what seems to be working is people find us through maybe another logo, another customer that's fancy and they're like, oh, Netflix is using Retool.
207
Oh, maybe I should check it out.
208
So I think that's a really important lesson there is don't try to like, hey, we need to start expanding or top of funnel to all these different channels.
209
And really litigate some of those channels too, because on the surface they might be working, but they're actually driving pipeline and revenue.
210
Got it.
211
So they may be showing like vanity metrics, like numbers are nice at the top, but they're not sales qualified potential.
212
They don't actually stick around.
213
Okay.
214
And then the analyzed competition is really interesting.
215
So again, it's just like, what are they doing?
216
What can we be doing differently?
217
Does it ever make sense just to do what they're doing, but do it better?
218
Or is that like rarely a successful path?
219
You still have to do something a little bit different.
220
I recall a very specific example at Stripe where our product Stripe Connect, which was made for marketplaces like Uber and Airbnb, where not only are you accepting money as a platform, you're also paying out people on the seller side of the marketplace.
221
So rather than using another off-the-shelf service, instead of using Stripe Connect, you might go off and become a PayFax yourself.
222
And a lot of the services organizations, the consulting groups that were helping companies become PayFax, the things that they were doing was really leaning into that old school terminology, the jargon of the legacy systems and so on and so forth.
223
And Stripe kind of figured out, hey, we need to rank higher for the SEO terms that people are searching for.
224
So how do we help rank for Payfac without actually talking about ourselves as a PayFax solution?
225
So we decided to kind of do a reverse RFP system where we created a piece of content that said, hey, if you want to be a payment facilitator, here's the secret playbook.
226
Like here's all the things that you have to do.
227
And by the way, if this feels onerous or annoying, it is, and you should use Stripe Connect instead.
228
So we're still a little bit of a zigging where others were zagging.
229
Yeah, but I think if we had done the same thing in terms of becoming a consulting service to become a payment facilitator, Connect would be nowhere near the sort of run rate or revenue that it drives for the company.
230
Okay, this is a great segue to Stripe, which another company you were the very first marketing hire at.
231
You were also, I believe, the only marketing person for three years at Stripe.
232
I do not recommend that to anybody.
233
There's a lesson there.
234
Okay, so let's talk about Stripe.
235
What are some of the biggest things you learned marketing at Stripe that you think might be helpful to other marketing people and founders?
236
Oh, man, there are so many things to choose from.
237
Because I was Stripe for almost eight and a half years.
238
Joining as the company's first marketing hire, you know, building that marketing function.
239
And John and Patrick, I would say actually, I was not the first marketer at Stripe.
240
John and Patrick were the first marketers at Stripe because they were developers themselves.
241
They truly understood the developer community.
242
And when that audience for Stripe was squarely developers to begin with, they knew exactly how to authentically reach that audience.
243
And so I had to unlearn a lot of the things that I had learned at Google and Dropbox coming into Stripe in order to reach developers authentically.
244
The experience really taught me the importance of deep product understanding as well.
245
Like you couldn't really play act at understanding the product, especially when developers are trained to spot bugs, right?
246
So not only do they spot those bugs in code, they spot those bugs in marketing and in blog posts.
247
And so if the marketing pieces are your first impression of the product, they're an extension of the product itself, you have to hold yourself to a very high bar in terms of how you communicate about the product.
248
And so we did a lot of investment in design work, in polish, in terms of how the marketing came together.
249
And the value of creating marketing artifacts that were deeply integrated with the company's mission and the craftsmanship that went into the product was another lesson that I learned very deeply at Stripe.
250
So kind of along those lines, again, people may look at Stripe and be like, okay, it's like the best thing ever for payments.
251
Why do we need marketing?
252
It's just like engineers build it and integrate it, works.
253
What is it that marketing most adds to a product like Stripe?
254
Across my time at Stripe, marketing serve very different purposes.
255
And so I kind of see it in different ways.
256
The first chapter, when I joined, our head of partnerships at the time, Christina Cordova, handed me a hackpad at the time, which is like a Notion Doc.
257
I remember a hackpad that turned into Dropbox paper.
258
That's right.
259
And so she had kept a hackpad, a secret hackpad away from the engineering team, which was all of the features and products that we had shipped but had never communicated to our customers about.
260
And so the launch sort of ended with shipping the feature rather than communicating with the user.
261
So the first chapter at Stripe was really just getting through that backlog and making sure that the ethos at the company changed to say, hey, your launch isn't complete until if you're just code complete, you have to actually ship it to the customer and make them aware of it.
262
So usage became the Nord Star, engagement became the Nord Star rather than just the binary, has it launched or not.
263
The second chapter at Stripe was really starting to expand what a launch meant, right?
264
So going from just putting out a blog post for people who were already subscribed to the RSS feed of the company versus thinking through, hey, how do we reach out to them through an email, through other channels?
265
How do we really invest in this fanatical community that is getting so excited about the product experience?
266
So we pull together developer experience as a function, built out developer relations to really have that community feeling and vibe.
267
And then it was about starting to think through the multi-product ecosystem.
268
So Stripe went from a single threaded payments processing company to one that had multiple different products and features for the audience and the user base.
269
So then the work of Marketing became: how do you help people understand and navigate potentially this multi-product ecosystem and platform to figure out what's the right set of features and solutions that they should be using for their needs?
270
And so, this is again a good example of marketing can do a lot of different things and depends on the stage, depends on the needs.
271
It almost starts again with diagnose.
272
Where do we have a need for marketing and growth?
273
And especially in hyper-growth companies, I think you have to run that diagnostic every three months, every six months, in order to stay adaptable and flexible because those top-level goals do change.
274
At some point, we really have to figure out how to scale our sales function.
275
We have to figure out how to scale internationally.
276
And so, being adaptable to that meant constant reprioritization and making sure that you were also hiring people who weren't super deep in particular disciplines, but having a team structure that was T-shaped, people who could be flexible to those needs of the company.
277
Coming back to your point about how there's no playbooks, is Stripe another example where it's like this has never been done before.
278
We shouldn't copy what other payments companies have done in the past.
279
Yeah, if we did, we would still be talking about PCI compliance and payment gateways.
280
There's so much of what you share that reminds me of Roz from Wiz, who also, you were an engineer originally.
281
She was a product person.
282
Yeah, I think, I don't know if she was an engineer, but a product person.
283
So, it's you're PM, actually.
284
Yeah, Roz is great.
285
Okay.
286
And it's, I think there's a few things that are so interesting here.
287
One is you both have like non-marketing backgrounds, like you went from open function.
288
And I think you tell me, it gives you like a whole new perspective on marketing, not just like the traditional education of marketing.
289
Is there anything there?
290
One thing that's definitely made me is very skeptical of most marketing channels and strategies and tactics.
291
And so I would be one of the first people to say, is that really going to work?
292
What developer is clicking on paid ads?
293
Is it a better thing that we could be doing for them, telling them to install ad block?
294
And so I think that skepticism means that you just have a higher bar for the quality of the content, the substance of the content.
295
You want to make sure that the marketing is as substantive and as crafted as the product experience itself.
296
The other really interesting corollary here is she was very big on avoiding the generic acronyms and classic industry norms.
297
I forget what they were for like cloud security, but it's just like, we don't, we're not this thing.
298
We're Wiz.
299
Here's what we do.
300
They are definitely a company that zags when others zig.
301
I still have my Wiz socks, which have these beautiful 8-bit characters on them.
302
Their branding really stands out in the sea of sameness in SaaS conferences.
303
Okay.
304
There's something I heard that you did at Stripe that I wanted to ask you about that worked really well.
305
When you came into Stripe, you looked at all of the biggest customer support issues and you turned those into docs to help people serve themselves.
306
Can you just talk about that insight and the power of doing something like that?
307
Yeah, and this was a great practice that existed at Stripe even before I joined, which is all new hires would do a support rotation just to build empathy with our customers.
308
So users first was a very core operating principle for the company.
309
And we spent about 20% of our time collectively talking to customers, talking to users, talking to non-users to understand their needs, their gripes about the product.
310
And that tradition, I think, continues to today.
311
The support rotation specifically was such a fantastic fountain of understanding: hey, like, these are the areas that people are confused about.
312
Again, I kind of mentioned the sort of cheat code of talking to your customers and using the language that they use to describe their problems as a shortcut to fantastic product marketing and messaging because it really tells you what are their pain points and how can you meet them where they are.
313
You want them nodding their heads along as they're reading your landing pages.
314
And so, when I was doing the support rotation, there were thematic things that kept coming up.
315
You know, people were asking, Hey, do you process subscription payments or recurring payments?
316
Or can I PA people out with Stripe?
317
And I was like, Of course you could, but there's no reason you should know that because we don't tell you anywhere.
318
And so, that ended up being a stacked-ranked backlog of landing pages that we produced that just educated people.
319
And this is really important when you have strong top-of-funnel demand and potentially not as many people, and you're not trying to scale your teams linearly.
320
Having those educational resources, especially for developers, a fantastic marketing funnel sometimes doesn't look like talking to sales, it often never looks like talking to sales.
321
It looks like a self-directed educational experience.
322
Even the sales process ends up being very consultative, typically with very technical folks on the other side.
323
So, yeah, that was a great way and a great program to figure out what content we should focus and prioritize.
324
These are really cool, just little ways as a new marketing person, you can add value really quickly, is kind of what I'm taking away.
325
Talking to customers is at the top of the list.
326
Today's episode is brought to you by LinkedIn Ads.
327
One of the hardest and also most important parts of B2B marketing is reaching the right people.
328
I'm constantly getting ads for products that I will never buy, and I almost feel sorry for the money that these companies are spending, pitching me on their spend management software or some kind of cybersecurity solution.
329
LinkedIn has grown to a network of over 1 billion professionals, including 130 million decision makers.
330
And that's where it stands apart from other ad platforms.
331
You can target your ad buyers by job title, industry, company, role, seniority, skills, even company revenue.
332
All the professionals that you need to reach in one place.
333
Stop wasting budget on the wrong audience and start targeting the right professionals only on LinkedIn ads.
334
LinkedIn will even give you $100 credit on your next campaign so that you can try it for yourself.
335
Just go to linkedin.com/slash podlenny.
336
That's linkedin.com/slash podleny.
337
Terms and conditions apply only on LinkedIn ads.
338
There's something else that I know that you're a big advocate of, which is internal reviews and just making sure everyone's aligned, which I think a lot of people, especially startups, try to avoid.
339
Like, let's just move fast.
340
We don't need to like have all these meetings or people review stuff.
341
But I know you're a big advocate of that.
342
Talk about why that's so important.
343
Yeah, this is a hill that I would die on, which is that good process or sufficient process is actually something that speeds up a company rather than slow it down.
344
It stems from this idea that we talked about a little bit, which is that marketing is an extension of your product.
345
It's the first touch point your customers have with your product.
346
And ideally, you're setting expectations there in terms of what they should expect once they sign up for the product or commit to a contract and start using it within their companies.
347
And when I think about that, consistency is really, really important.
348
The other part, the other facet of why process is important is because, especially as you're in hyper-growth companies, scaling teams is part and parcel, like what you're trying to do.
349
And when you bring in someone new, you want them to be just as self-sufficient as somebody who's been at the company for two years.
350
So, in your second week, can you be as successful as someone who's been at the company for two years?
351
And the reason that I have that principle in mind is because it makes you kind of break out of your shell: I've been at this company for some time now.
352
I understand the sort of unspoken rules of the organization.
353
I've built up enough social capital that I can withdraw from to get something done.
354
And I know, you know, which conference room to stand outside of to get the founder to review a piece of content before it goes out the door.
355
That is not scalable, that is not sustainable.
356
And so, if you want somebody to be successful and contributing member of the organization very, very quickly, setting up some of these processes with the intention of trying to help them navigate how to go from idea to execution can be very empowering and powerful.
357
Nobody wants to do the wrong thing, they want the guardrails to understand what great looks like at the company.
358
Can you speak more about what this looks like?
359
Say a startup wants to start implementing something like this.
360
Two simple processes that you could put into place today is one, set up a forum called Marketing Review.
361
This can be a live meeting that you host for an hour a week, or it can be a Slack channel where people are posting things async, or even an email alias where things get sent to.
362
Have that be transparent to the rest of the organization.
363
So, anyone in the marketing team, anyone in the product organization can join that forum.
364
What that does is it creates a fishbowl where you see sort of what are the themes that come out when somebody reviews a piece of content.
365
Are they looking at the strategy?
366
Are they looking at the audience?
367
Are they looking at the words?
368
Are they looking at the sort of design?
369
So you learn through osmosis of looking at some of these discussions.
370
And then I would say don't overdo it.
371
I would say there are probably two checkpoints in a program that are really important to get aligned at.
372
One is the 20% review.
373
A 20% review is a strategy review.
374
What are we trying to accomplish?
375
Who are we trying to do it for?
376
And what is the rough approach that we're going to take?
377
If everyone feels comfortable with that, you come back at the 80% mark where you've done a lot of the work on the artifacts, the different types of teams that have to be involved, and how do you take something to market in the first place.
378
And the reason that I say 80% is sort of critical because if you come in at the 99% mark and you're just looking for a rubber stamp of approval, you don't really have the Slack in the system to be able to make any changes, then that review was worthless.
379
So come in at the 80% mark where you can still make some substantive changes before it goes out the door.
380
And that served the purpose of consistency so that your brand is showing up in a consistent way to the audience.
381
And two, it helps the rest of the organization learn from each other.
382
There's almost this unspoken element of what you're describing that I want to dig into a little bit, which is the need and value of having consistent and high-quality marketing, communication.
383
Why is that important?
384
There's always this talk of just like move fast, break things.
385
We're going to be scrappy.
386
We're not going to be obsessed with the perfect quality of our, I don't know, websites and emails.
387
Just like, why is that important?
388
Why do you value that?
389
Why should companies maybe value that more?
390
It's funny because the companies who value Velocity actually do value their brand just as much.
391
But oftentimes they think of these as two siloed, separate initiatives that they have to put.
392
They are actually very interconnected.
393
And so, when you understand the consistency of your brand, it actually empowers the organization to move faster because you kind of understand how you want the brand to show up in the world.
394
What is that experience that you want your customers to come away with when they interact with your brand?
395
And the brand is not just marketing artifacts, it is your product experience, it is how your customer support team talks to them, how they resolve tickets.
396
Are you getting passed between a bunch of different teams, or is someone just resolving your ticket right away?
397
It's the experience that they have for candidates when they come to recruit at your company.
398
So, all of these variety of touch points that touch so many different organizations and teams within your organization, they are the amalgamation that makes up your brand.
399
And so, if you think of these two things as separate silos, you are optimizing for entirely the wrong thing.
400
I've very viscerally learned the power of brand doing my newsletter.
401
Like, I so fear doing something very wrong in my newsletter.
402
It's like saying something that's completely off, or having something broken, or sending an email by accident to everyone that's not ready.
403
Like, I just feel like once I break that, just there's so much power and trust that people have built for what I share, and there's so much power that comes from that trust.
404
Like, if I launch a new podcast, you know, people will assume it will be good if they trust what I do and I maintain high quality.
405
And so, it's just like a constant fear I have now of hurting, of breaking that trust.
406
Yeah, I mean, whether it's fear that drives me.
407
Like a brand is an expectation that you create within your audience.
408
And to what you said, if you have a strong brand that people trust, everything gets easier.
409
You pitch them on your product.
410
Oh, I'm going to check it.
411
Like if Stripe's like, oh, we have a new billing service.
412
Oh, I bet it'll be awesome because it's Stripe.
413
Or if OpenAI launches something, you know, so that's, it just makes life easier if your brand is strong, if there's trust.
414
Yeah, and you've got to take that responsibility seriously because even with something like Stripe, we know that people are going to come try out things that we put out the door.
415
And so we wanted to make sure that that met up to people's expectations.
416
And same thing with OpenAI.
417
When we launched something, even though we were trying to be first to market and that velocity was so important for the company, oftentimes it also came with sometimes putting the brakes on to kind of understand how can we improve the quality of the experience?
418
How can we make sure that it is safe?
419
So there were different criteria at the two companies, but a similar ethos overall for the brand experience that we wanted people to experience.
420
Let's actually come back to OpenAI.
421
How long were they around until before you joined?
422
Like many, many years, right?
423
Many, many years.
424
So OpenAI had been around for almost a decade as primarily a research organization.
425
They had launched ChatGPT about a year before I joined.
426
And so that was the first foray into saying, hey, our work is not just announcing research breakthroughs.
427
It is about putting products into the market.
428
So there's a few questions I'm going to ask you.
429
One is just like, when is it time to bring in Akrithika?
430
Like, when is it like, okay, we need help here?
431
We're like a bunch of smart people doing great work.
432
People love the product, but like, which is really important because you're throwing fuel on the fire, and you might be throwing different types of fuel on your particular fire.
433
So, one pillar for marketing that you have to think about is product marketing.
434
So, if you have a high-velocity engineering organization and product organization that is putting out a lot of different features and your customers aren't able to keep track, maybe the engagement's not so high for some of the newer features versus some of the core features that you had in the past, a product marketer can really help bring a discipline of launch excellence and customer engagement.
435
Differentiation in the market, how are you positioning the product?
436
The second pillar for me is demand generation.
437
So, if you have much more of a sales-driven buyer journey in motion, how are you bringing the demand engines to bear so that your lead generation, your pipeline generation is staying really strong and solid?
438
Or you might want to think about brand, right?
439
Like, you might want to think about community development as a big part of what you're doing as a company.
440
So, it really depends, but I think in all of these, you found a spark of product market fit before you're really going for it.
441
The second for me is that you're distinguishing enough between capital M marketing and lowercase end marketing.
442
And this is an important distinction I've learned over the years, which is capital M marketing, the marketing team, the marketing function of the company, is responsible for those channels and artifacts and engines that are driving the funnel for the company.
443
But they are not the end-all-be-all of like the discipline of marketing.
444
And that's where the lowercase end marketing comes in, which is what do you stand for as a company?
445
What is the storyline that you're telling as a founder when you're talking to the press, to the larger business community?
446
And then it really is a whole company motion where the product team is thinking about how are we going to market?
447
What are we going to market with?
448
The sales team is figuring out what is the right ICP, the right customer profile that decision makers are that we need to be reaching.
449
And then it is this entire joining of the organizations to make that happen really effectively.
450
Yeah, I think along these lines, there's a reason Brian at Airbnb merged marketing and, or product marketing and product management, however much that actually happened or not.
451
But the intent is.
452
I'm so curious to see a follow-up a few years on on how that's been going.
453
Yeah, that's okay.
454
Let's have Brian back to talk about that.
455
That'd be really interesting.
456
I wanted actually to ask: so, an interesting thing is happening with ChatGPT versus Claude.
457
And it's so interesting.
458
Claude is arguably better at many things, at code, at least at this point.
459
Things are always changing.
460
People, it seems to be about a writer in a lot of ways.
461
People prefer it for writing.
462
But it's just like ChatGPT is just dominating.
463
It's like that's what people associate with AI now, is just ChatGPT.
464
It's just like caught mind share globally.
465
What is it do you think that allowed ChatGPT just to be that?
466
Is it just first move to advantage?
467
Is it some kind of other element?
468
Is it just has been better longer?
469
Like something really interesting is going on there.
470
One of the things that comes to mind is the orientation when it comes to large language models and AI in general is that we're just at the very beginning innings of this whole paradigm shift.
471
There's this one-upmanship on point changes and eval numbers and so on and so forth.
472
But I think to customers, the users of the product, the things that make it delightful are the same things that make any product delightful.
473
And there's a sense of loyalty that builds up over time when there is a shorter and smaller delta between your expectations and your reality.
474
And where those expectations are exceeded, it is accretive to the brand and your loyalty to the product.
475
And where there is a negative delta, that tends to be something that it really detracts.
476
I guess long story short, what I'm trying to say is that all of these companies have to think in a much more long-term oriented fashion because it's not about a race of the best chat bot and the best outputs.
477
It's about how does AI become a positive force for humanity?
478
And so that's going to take a lot of change management and a lot of collaboration between a variety of different organizations rather than just the companies themselves and the product experience itself because it's going to permeate every aspect of our lives, our personal lives, our academic lives, our work lives.
479
And so to make that transformation happen, my hope is these companies are not super focused on just their competition and one-upmanship, but rather thinking about the paradigm changes that need to happen for our society writ large.
480
It does feel like they are taking that responsibility really seriously, but it is a massive responsibility.
481
Before we leave OpenAI, it feels like it may be the most impactful, important company in the world right now, just because they're.
482
So let me ask you this, just like as a person working there, what's like something people may not know that's a like a wonderful positive element of how OpenAI works?
483
That's just like, oh, that's super interesting.
484
And then what was maybe a challenge of working at OpenAI?
485
A surprising thing that surprised me at the company was just the warmth and intellectual curiosity of my peers and leaders at the company.
486
And truly the sort of commitment to the mission of making artificial intelligence that benefits all of humanity was not just lip service.
487
It was something that was embodied day to day.
488
The sort of questioning that happened, the sort of pressure testing that happened, the rigor with which products were developed, go-to-market strategies were developed was bard.
489
And so that's something that I really admire.
490
And it was a privilege to be a part of that organization.
491
I think challenging, of course, is just being at the eye of the storm, right?
492
The eye of the eye of the hurricane.
493
And so all eyes are on OpenAI at all times.
494
And I think that is a good thing because of the ramifications of the product.
495
But it also really raised the stakes in terms of how we operated and with what scrutiny everything that we did was looked at with.
496
Do you recommend that sort of experience for people?
497
Because I imagine work-life balance wasn't great.
498
I imagine there was a lot of stress and worry constantly.
499
Who's like the right person?
500
Like when in your career is this a sort of gig to take on versus not?
501
I'm a big believer of what Claire Hughes-Johnson, who was CEO at Stripe, used to share with us, which is there is a concept of a work-life blend and sort of making sure that you're working at a company that has three components.
502
I think first and foremost is always people.
503
So, are the people that you're surrounding yourself with ones that push your thinking, who are kind, who are genuinely interesting people to spend your hours with because you're spending a vast majority of your time with them?
504
The second to me is product, right?
505
Like, do you go to sleep thinking about the product, waking up, wanting to put it into the hands of more people because you know it is going to be good for them or useful to them?
506
That's something, you know, I'm not one of those marketers who can pick up any product and market it.
507
I have to have that conviction behind the product itself.
508
And then, third is sort of potential, right?
509
Not just potential for the company to do well, but potential for your discipline to have an impact on the trajectory of the company.
510
And so, when you have that kind of potent combination, it can really change your perspective on what's draining, what's energizing.
511
But being very self-aware of what gives you energy is also very helpful to align with the needs of the company, also.
512
Let's shift to talking about Thrive, which is where you work now.
513
And talk about what your role is.
514
And what's interesting, I think, about this role is you get to work now with a bunch of different startups instead of go really deep with one.
515
So, share what you do there, and then what are some things you've learned there so far from a perspective of marketing?
516
Yeah, surprisingly, more people know about Thrive these days than used to, even just a few years ago.
517
And Thrive is a very unique type of investment company.
518
And sometimes when I made the leap, people used to ask me, Oh, was this always in your ambition to make the leap into the investment side?
519
And I can honestly say it wasn't.
520
But I think being at a firm like Thrive really gives you a very different perspective and it strengthens your ability to be a stronger operator, whether that's in marketing or go-to-market or strategic finance or whatever other pillar within the company there is.
521
Yeah, Thrive's mission is to be the most meaningful partner to founders.
522
And so there's a lot of high-concentration, high-conviction investments each year.
523
And Thrive is also unique in that it's a network of builders.
524
And so they are really pulling their investment strategies from having been founders themselves.
525
So my role at the company is to help our entire portfolio with all of their marketing needs.
526
So sometimes it means being interim CMO for some portion of time until they find a great leader to fill that seat.
527
Sometimes it means pressure testing their strategy and making sure that their growth targets are ambitious enough.
528
Sometimes it means looking at a Figma file for a landing page that's going out the next day and making sure the words are as good as they can be.
529
And that variety across a bunch of industries, a bunch of stages of companies, everything from a company that hasn't even been incorporated yet all the way to Databricks and Stripe and OpenAI when it comes to the types of organizations that we work with.
530
And then yeah, the variety of domains can range from consumer to healthcare to defense to B2B SaaS to AI.
531
So it is a variety pack in the best way possible.
532
And so what are some things you've learned so far?
533
Because I imagine this is a very different experience.
534
I don't know, especially things that you've changed your mind on, even working with a bunch of companies early stage versus it's a really different method of operating.
535
And so, when you're in the leadership role for marketing within a single organization, you have at least a medium-term North Star in terms of what your teams are trying to drive for the company.
536
And as much context switching as there might be, there is still one company, ideally, one product, one buyer journey.
537
That hasn't always been the case, especially with OpenAI and Stripe, but it can span B2C, B2B, B2D.
538
Thrive is very different in that if you want to be a meaningful partner to the founders, you cannot just jump from 30-minute call to 30-minute call to 30-minute call.
539
You have to go deep to understand the context.
540
And if anything, it's really underscored my ethos that you, as a marketer, the best thing that you can bring to the table is your adaptability and flexibility.
541
So, to really diagnose and not just try to spot patterns and themes and playbooks for these companies, but rather be very deep in the trenches with them to understand their unique context, their unique concerns, their unique characteristics, and their values and what they want to bring into the world.
542
The reason that they want to work with Thrive is not because we are bringing our past experiences to the table, but rather because they're trying to do something new that has never been done in the world.
543
And so, those are the engagements that are the most exciting: you're building and going into uncharted territory alongside these founders.
544
I bet they're all like, Krithika, what is the playbook for growing this B2B SaaS company?
545
And you're like, no, there is none.
546
Damn.
547
But we got the framework that we talked about.
548
Okay, I want to zoom out a little bit and talk about just career advice for marketing people.
549
Whether it's early stage or later stage, you have this concept, the chameleon CMO.
550
Yeah, the conventional wisdom for many CMOs is to be like a T-shaped marketer.
551
And what that means is go deep in one of these pillars that we talked about: product marketing, demand marketing, brand marketing.
552
And that kind of becomes your calling card in the world.
553
Like, if a company needs brand expertise, they go for this kind of flavor of CMO.
554
Or if a company needs to really grow their pipeline or their demand gen or their consumer growth, they go for more of like a demand and growth-oriented CMO.
555
And I think this chameleon CMO concept is a bit of a novel one in that, again, I think modern marketing leaders have to be really good at a bunch of different things.
556
They have to be very analytical.
557
They have to be best friends with the data science pod because they need to understand the impact of their marketing.
558
They, of course, have to bring creativity, but it is in service to the buyer journey.
559
It is in service to revenue goals and goals that they share with the sales team or the product team and so on.
560
So marketing operating in a silo is no longer a real possibility.
561
So the ability to diversify your interest, maybe going from T-shaped to comb-shaped is probably the right approach here so that you can go deeper in different domains when it is useful for the company through the diagnostic that you do.
562
That sounds very hard.
563
I love this meta-visual of the co-shape.
564
It sounds like I have so much to learn, so many little skills to learn.
565
This is where AI can come in handy.
566
You know, some of the most like brand marketers can become very analytical with the support of a tool like ChatGPT.
567
If your eyes glaze over when you look at giant dumps of CSS, it's nice to have a partner that is non-judgmental to kind of push your thinking and to help you understand the details of the data behind the brand work that you might be doing, or vice versa.
568
Like if you're a very creative product marketer, a very analytical growth marketer, you can work with ChatGPT to be more of a brainstorm partner and really push your thinking on the creative side.
569
So I think becoming a non-just T-shaped marketer is getting a little bit easier.
570
That's such a good point.
571
A good segue to an AI question.
572
And we got to talk about AI.
573
One of your former colleagues, Kevin Garcia, wanted me to ask you something.
574
He suggested I asked you about taste and creativity in AI.
575
So he said that you're one of the best writers that he's ever worked with.
576
You combine technical backgrounds with creative taste.
577
You do pottery, and you're a voracious reader.
578
And he wanted just to poke at what you think about just how taste and creativity and writing change in the era of AI.
579
I think it's going to become so much more important.
580
First of all, I will say I am not a ChatGPT hyphen person.
581
Like I was an M dasher well before it became a chat GPT.
582
Me too.
583
I hate that.
584
But just for people who don't know, like people are filtering out M dashes, right?
585
Because they think ChatGPT is the only thing you can do.
586
I don't know what to do about it because this is such a core part of my identity.
587
But that's a big statement.
588
M-dashed.
589
To take a step back, though, you know, I think if anything, taste is going to become a distinguishing factor in the age of AI because there's going to be so much drivel that is generated by AI, or can be generated by AI, that power is at anyone's fingertips.
590
But truly, the companies that are going to distinguish themselves are the ones that show their craft, that they show their true understanding of the product, the true understanding of their customer, and connect the two in meaningful ways.
591
If they can use AI to augment their efforts to make that happen, that's better than subsuming their efforts.
592
So, to build taste, you know, there's plenty of past episodes that you yourself have recorded that get into building that work.
593
But to me, that is going to be a real differentiator for not only great marketers, but great companies to stand out in the field.
594
There's a concept that I love that recently I learned from Guillermo at Vercel.
595
He calls it exposure hours.
596
I want to ask them how to build taste, and that's kind of a value they have at their company: is just increase your exposure hours to great stuff, because that is how you build taste.
597
I love that.
598
It's such a simple, actionable thing you can do.
599
Yeah.
600
At Thrive, we have this share channel, which is just sharing things that we're seeing out into the world.
601
It's not particularly deal flow news or competitive news or anything like that, but it is things that we have seen that resonated with us for whatever reason.
602
Along these lines of not over-relying on ChatGPT AI tools for writing and creativity, it feels like there's going to be a big issue with people just starting earlier in their career where they just like never learn how to do the thing and they just rely really heavily on ChatGPT and tools like that to write, to email, to communicate well.
603
I guess, do you have any advice for folks that are early career, just like how to find that balance of not over-relying, but still leveraging these tools?
604
I think there's two schools of thought here.
605
One is that sort of the domain, the discipline itself stays static.
606
So, whether you're going at it in a manual way, or an automated way, or an AI-augmented way.
607
But I think the other school of thought, which I more believe in, is that the discipline itself is changing.
608
And so, what it means to market a product, what it means to show up as a fantastic operator, is in and itself changing.
609
And so, if you're not leveraging some of these tools, you will be putting yourself at a disadvantage.
610
But understanding the underlying mechanics, you know, this is why I would still be a very firm believer in STEM education: that you understand the fundamental concepts, and then you can have a choice and optionality in how you decide to apply those concepts.
611
But the concepts themselves have to be there in the foundations.
612
Yeah, easier said than done, because there's all these tools now, and you're just like, hey, I need to write a report for school.
613
Like, I guess I could just, maybe this time I'll just ask ChatGPT to help me with this one.
614
Yeah, the mindset of learning has to be maybe the one that we have to really imbue as a value because being of that growth mindset, if you go to school just to earn the grades or to finish the coursework, it's a very different mindset than if you go to school to learn those concepts and to understand how to apply them.
615
That's something that stuck with me from my chat with Toby Luttke from Shopify.
616
We were chatting about just like what is the most important things to incubate in your child.
617
And his answer I loved, which is just curiosity.
618
I love that.
619
Yeah, and that's what you're kind of speaking to: is just like if you're curious about learning, you'll almost avoid some of these things, or you'll use these tools in a really interesting way just to learn things more deeply.
620
And that stays with you into your career, right?
621
Because you can either go into your career trying to get to that next ladder in the promotion rung, or you can get there to bring a genuine curiosity to what makes us different?
622
What makes our customers tick?
623
And how do we find those unique insights that can unlock something that nobody else has?
624
That reminds me.
625
I wanted to come back to sort of close out our conversation.
626
I wanted to come back to pricing strategy.
627
I have that in my notes here, and I haven't gone back to it.
628
So let me just focus on the AI and pricing strategy.
629
Just like, say, someone is trying to figure out pricing for their product, and they have some kind of AI product.
630
What are some tips, some piece of advice to think this through?
631
Any general frameworks to use?
632
Again, there's no playbook.
633
So I feel like it's such a non-answer, but I think the real answer is experimentation.
634
And we found this firsthand multiple times at Stripe, but also at Retool.
635
I think there was a very visceral example where we decided to bring our free product into the hands of more users and sort of what was available in the free plan.
636
And then there was another one that we tested out as a pricing function where we decided to do something quite controversial, which is to take the thing that our sales team was gated on, a self-hosted version of Retool, and made that available self-serve to anybody who wanted it.
637
They didn't have to talk to a salesperson.
638
And that kind of blew up the funnel, right?
639
Because the amount of pipeline that the sales team saw had diminished considerably, but it also helped them focus upmarket on higher ACD deals.
640
And so that trade-off was really hard to make.
641
And so the only way we could do it was through experimentation and piloting to build conviction.
642
So I would say AI is no different in that you kind of have to test the market to see what works.
643
Is it a seed-based model?
644
Is that where people are deriving value?
645
Is it the amount of things that they could do now that they couldn't do before?
646
And so there might be a metric there to go off of.
647
And I don't think anyone solved it.
648
Like there's, especially with agents coming into play, like how you pay for AI workers is going to be very different.
649
You know, what is that unit of completion for things like code generators?
650
Is going to be, it's going to be a wild, wild west before we come up with something that is as internalized now as seed-based pricing or usage-based pricing.
651
Wild indeed.
652
I want to actually follow this insight you had around Retool.
653
That's really interesting.
654
So yeah, what was, so you opened up self-hosted retool.
655
What was the insight there?
656
Because this might be useful to people that convince you to play with that, seems like a big deal change to how you price and do trials.
657
There were two guiding principles here.
658
One is, do people actually want to talk to sales before they get a self-hosted thing?
659
And sort of like the SSO attacks, right?
660
Like, is that really the thing that you want to gate your value on?
661
And so that was one.
662
And so we saw a lot of demand from smaller customers that still wanted self-hosted for a variety of reasons because they worked in regulated industries or they worked with very private data and PII.
663
And so it wasn't just something that was, hey, if you have 10,000 employees at your company and you're an enterprise, you want self-hosted.
664
It was that for a variety of different reasons, regardless of your company's size, you might want self-hosted.
665
So that insight kind of led us to say, hey, where is the delineation here?
666
Because the sales team should be talking to larger customers, landing larger deals.
667
Two final questions before we get to our very exciting lightning round.
668
I'm going to take you to a couple of recurring segments on this podcast.
669
The first is AI Corner.
670
And with AI Corner, what I try to get to is some way that you have figured out to use an AI tool in your work to do better work, to do faster work, to be more efficient.
671
Is there something there that you could share?
672
And if not, that's also totally cool.
673
Ooh, it is hard to pick because there's not many things I don't use AI for these days.
674
And oftentimes, it's a catalyst and an accelerant to the work that I'm already doing.
675
But I think it can actually unlock my ability to talk to dozens of companies across the Thrive portfolio in any given week.
676
And the ability to get deep on their context, their environment, their competitive landscape, we can do that because of the tools and the products that Thrive has invested in from an engineering perspective.
677
So we have internal tools that are driven with AI that give us a lot of insights and access to expertise for these companies.
678
So we can show up as more meaningful partners in a day-to-day basis.
679
So I think the ability to mix AI tooling that accelerates work that you're already doing and then AI-based tools that unlock superpowers that wouldn't otherwise be available to you unless you're going deep into Google Groups archives or talking to people across the organization to pull out things that are inside of their brain.
680
That kind of institutional knowledge being made more accessible by AI is actually more powerful sometimes than the tools themselves.
681
And in fact, even at OpenAI, it's one of the things that we advised most enterprises to invest in first: their own operational efficiency rather than just the AI magic dust they could sprinkle on top of their product experience for their customers.
682
Awesome.
683
Okay, final segment of the podcast we call Fail Corner.
684
And the idea here is: we have all these amazing guests, all these super successful people on the podcast, all these stories of epic wins and nothing but success.
685
And I think in reality, that's not the case.
686
And it's important for people to hear that things aren't always up into the right and always win-win-win.
687
Is there a story from your career you can share where things didn't work out and what you learned from that experience?
688
And again, this question is hard because there's so many things to choose from as potential examples here.
689
And you're absolutely right, Lenny, in that most careers are not the sort of linear journeys that are reflected on somebody's LinkedIn profile.
690
Now, I'll talk about a fantastic success, which is called Striper Relay, which you probably, I'm just kidding, because nobody remembers it.
691
It was ahead of its market.
692
We launched it back in 2014.
693
It was supposed to be the platform with which e-commerce companies would tap into social commerce, the buy buttons, if you remember that.
694
And it launched to a lot of fanfare, but then eventually failed.
695
Like it didn't produce the sort of revenue or the numbers that we had expected.
696
And the understanding here was that as much as one side of the marketplace, or you might have some conviction that you need to put something into the market for a particular moment in time, the timing of the market really matters.
697
And the timing of multiple parties.
698
And so the learning here was like we hadn't gone deep enough into the market dynamics, we hadn't done enough user research.
699
Did people really want this?
700
And if they did, what were their alternatives?
701
What were the stacks that they were operating in?
702
And would they adopt a net new tool versus one that integrated into existing systems directly, like their e-commerce inventory management systems and so on?
703
And so for that reason, I think, again, it was ahead of its market and ahead of its time, but a clear flop regardless of the effort that we put into that launch.
704
This reminds me of when Kevin Wheel was on the podcast talking about Libra, which was this cryptocurrency project that Facebook ran.
705
And he's just like, okay, that was a terrible time to launch something like that where people trusted Facebook the least in history.
706
And now may be a good time to try something like that, basically a cryptocurrency platform to send money internationally for free.
707
What a dream that would be.
708
Okay, Krithika, is there anything else you wanted to share or maybe something you wanted to remind people of from what we've talked about, just to leave folks with a final nugget before we get to our very exciting lightning run?
709
If there's one thing that folks take away, I hope it is that they know that there isn't one clear answer to any of the marketing problems.
710
It seems like there's a playbook for everything, there's a framework for everything.
711
But the reality is the work is hard.
712
You have to spend the hours and the time to really understand your customer, and there is no replacement for that.
713
And there isn't going to be even with the advent of AI.
714
And the other part of it is to deeply understand your product as well.
715
Like, what are you bringing to the table?
716
And not just your product, but your company's values.
717
Because, in the absence of that, nothing is going to be a substitute to bring that combination of ingredients together.
718
With that, we've reached our very exciting lightning round.
719
We have five questions for you.
720
Are you ready?
721
Here we go.
722
What are two or three books that you find yourself recommending most to other people?
723
On the professional side, one book that I recommend to most people is April Dunford's book on positioning called Obviously Awesome.
724
She does a great job breaking down how to position a product from scratch if you've never had to do that.
725
And she's just so great for her real talk.
726
So, really, highly recommend that.
727
And then I love fiction.
728
So, I would say one of the best reads in the last couple of years has been Madeleine Miller's Circe, which is a retelling of a Greek myth.
729
So, lyrical prose, beautiful writing, highly recommend.
730
Love the combo.
731
April Dunford, we're huge fans of her on the podcast.
732
She's been on twice.
733
I think her book is in my background.
734
We'll link to her episodes.
735
And mine.
736
Oh, wow.
737
Okay.
738
So cool.
739
Yeah, she's the best.
740
Okay, next question.
741
Do you have a favorite recent movie or TV show that you have really enjoyed?
742
I'm really late to the game, but I'm finally catching up on Severance.
743
So, no spoilers, but I'm about halfway through the first season.
744
Wow.
745
Okay.
746
It's hard to weigh the spoilers.
747
But yeah, keep going.
748
It's amazing.
749
Do you have a favorite product you recently discovered that you really love?
750
Granola for meeting notes.
751
I love taking meeting notes as a way to stay engaged in the conversation and to pay a lot of attention.
752
But I also know I'm like furiously typing.
753
That's two guests in a row that said granola.
754
And I'll give a plug: you get a year free of granola to become an annual subscriber of my newsletter for not just you, but your whole company up to some limit.
755
Check out Lenny'snewsletter.com and click bundle and sign up and get granola.
756
So cool.
757
I love that, Melenny.
758
It's helping granola and me, I guess.
759
Yeah, it's great.
760
Okay, thank you.
761
Two more questions.
762
Do you have a favorite life motto that you find useful in work or in life?
763
My teams have now gotten tired of me saying this, but I say it all the time, which is the delta between expectations and reality is the function for unhappiness.
764
And so it is much easier to change expectations than it is reality.
765
And so I tend to spend a lot of my energy making sure that expectations are set, not just with customers when it comes to our external marketing, but internally with stakeholders, project partners, and even within the team so that they understand what are some of the trade-offs that we're making or why we're making certain decisions.
766
So I could not espouse that philosophy enough.
767
I love that this isn't, because I think when people first hear that, it's about your own happiness.
768
But I love that it's about other people perceiving how something did and setting their expectations correctly.
769
Final question.
770
Okay, we already talked about the M-dash, but I want to ask you again: like what I'm finding is, so the story here is basically people have discovered ChatGPT is using M-dashes a lot, which are like these long dashes that you have to use like special couple letters on the keyboard to use.
771
I'm a huge, I use these all the time, and people are starting to filter them out on Twitter because they're assuming it's generated by ChatGPT.
772
Will you continue using M dashes in spite of all this?
773
I have begrudgingly reduced my usage of M dashes, but you will not pry them out of my hand.
774
cold dead hands if you if you tried.
775
Oh man, me too.
776
And it's like, I don't even know, it's like command options dash or something to even put in.
777
No, it's it's option shift minus.
778
Option shift minus.
779
I have to like type it.
780
I can't conceptualize it in my head.
781
Yeah, and then there's like actual rules for when an m dash is the right thing versus the Oxford comma, the two core tenets of my toolbox.
782
Is it an Oxford comma where you add the comma at the end or you don't?
783
You keep the comma at the end.
784
You keep it.
785
I'm all for that too.
786
It looks so weird without it.
787
But there's also like another, like a shorter, not M-dash, I guess it's called something else, right?
788
There's like range.
789
M-dash, yeah.
790
That's for ranges of numbers.
791
Okay.
792
Okay.
793
I love that you know all this.
794
Okay.
795
Well, with that, Krithika, this has been so fun and so awesome.
796
Thank you so much for being here.
797
Two final questions.
798
Where can folks find you online if they want to reach out, maybe work with you?
799
And how can listeners be useful to you?
800
Critics.com is where you'll find links to all my online presences.
801
And one of my personal missions this year is to meet as many of the up-and-coming marketing talents in the world.
802
So anyone that you know is early or career, ambitious, but really showing their impact at their organization, please introduce them to me.
803
I would love to chat.
804
And then what's the best way for them to reach out to you?
805
Is it just on your website?
806
Yes, please.
807
Amazing.
808
We'll link to that in the show notes.
809
Krithika, thank you so much for being here.
810
Thank you for having me.
811
Bye, everyone.
812
Thank you so much for listening.
813
If you found this valuable, you can subscribe to the show on Apple Podcasts, Spotify, or your favorite podcast app.
814
You can find all past episodes or learn more about the show at lennyspodcast.com.
815
See you in the next episode.