--- METADATA START ---
Show: N/A
Episode: How Palantir built the ultimat… - Lenny's Podcast: Product | Growth | Career
Host: Lenny Rachitsky
GUESTS: Nabil Koshaibi
Guests: Nabil Koshaibi
Source URL: https://podcasts.apple.com/us/podcast/how-palantir-built-the-ultimate-founder-factory/id1627920305?i=1000707982175
--- METADATA END ---

 30% of PMs that we found here start at company.
 Just give us a picture of what the people are like.
 I feel like they're screened really hard for a few traits in particular.
 One is like very independent minded people who weren't afraid to push back.
 Two is people with broader intellectual interests.
 What's the difference between say a PM at Palantier versus a traditional PM?
 They were extremely powerful about only making people PMs
 who had first proven themselves out as forward deployed engineers.
 You basically could not become a PM any other way.
 There's two types of engineer at Palantier.
 So there's one that works on the cold products and the retraditional software engine.
 There was a different type of engineer which you sent into the field, right?
 You would spend maybe Monday to Thursday
 and you would actually go into the building where the customer worked
 and you would work alongside them.
 You would literally get a dust bath.
 And so that engineer became known as a forward deployed engineer.
 What's something that you believe that most other people don't?
 I think this is somewhat contrarian view within tech.
 Today, my guest is Nabil Kureshi.
 Nabil is a founder, a writer, a researcher and an engineer.
 He was recently a visiting scholar researching AI policy
 at the Mercatus Center alongside Tyler Cohen.
 At one point, he worked with the National Institute of Health
 and major clinical centers to create the largest medical data set in the world.
 He worked at the Bank of England for a bit.
 He was founding member and VP of business development at GoCardless,
 one of Europe's biggest financial technology unicorns
 and most related to the topic of this conversation.
 Nabil spent almost eight years at Palantir as a forward deployed engineer,
 working on public health projects with US federal agencies,
 including public health services during the COVID-19 response
 and applied AI in drug discovery.
 Whether you are a fan of Palantir or hate everything that they do,
 they are an important and fast-growing company
 that is pumping out incredible product leaders
 as you'll hear more than any other company in the world.
 So it is worth studying and understanding.
 I've never heard an in-depth conversation digging into how they operate,
 built product, hire, and were able to scale from a primarily services business
 to a software business.
 So I am very excited to bring you this insight look.
 In our conversation, we go deep into what the heck this Palantir even do,
 why getting good at managing lots of data
 is an under-appreciated secret to their success,
 a look at the unique forward deployed engineer role that they innovated
 and what other companies can borrow from their insights here,
 also how they hire and how they build amazing product leaders,
 plus a ton of advice on talking to customers, building products,
 and starting companies.
 If you enjoy this podcast, don't forget to subscribe
 and follow it in your favorite podcasting app or YouTube.
 Also, if you become an annual subscriber of my newsletter,
 you get a bunch of amazing products for free for a year,
 including superhuman, notion, linear, perplexity, granola, and more.
 Check it out at lennysnewsletter.com and click bundle.
 With that, I bring you, Nabil Karashi.
 This episode is brought to you by WorkOS.
 If you're building a SaaS app, at some point,
 your customers will start asking for enterprise features
 like SAML authentication and SKIM provisioning.
 That's where WorkOS comes in, making it fast and painless
 to add enterprise features to your app.
 Their APIs are easy to understand
 so that you can ship quickly and get back
 to building other features.
 Today, hundreds of companies are already powered by WorkOS,
 including ones you probably know,
 like Vercel, Webflow, and Loom.
 WorkOS also recently acquired Warren's,
 the Fine Grain Authorization Service.
 Warren's product is based on a groundbreaking
 authorization system called Zanzabar,
 which was originally designed for Google
 to power Google Docs and YouTube.
 This enables fast authorization checks at enormous scale,
 while maintaining a flexible model that can be adapted
 to even the most complex use cases.
 If you're currently looking to build role-based access control
 or other enterprise features like single sign-on,
 SKIM, or user management, you should consider WorkOS.
 It's a drop-in replacement for Auth0
 and supports up to one million monthly active users for free.
 Check it out at WorkOS.com to learn more.
 That's WorkOS.com.
 This episode is brought to you by Atio, the AI Native CRM.
 Atio is built to scale with your business from day one.
 Connect your email and calendar,
 and Atio instantly builds a CRM
 that matches your business model,
 with all of your companies, contacts,
 and interactions enriched with actionable insights.
 Sync in your product's usage, billing info,
 or any other data sources,
 and Atio's flexible data model will handle it all
 without any rigid templates or workarounds.
 With Atio, AI isn't just a feature.
 It's the foundation.
 You can do things like instantly prospect and route leads
 with research agents, get real-time insights from AI
 using customer conversations,
 and build powerful AI automations
 for your most complex Workos.
 Industry leaders like Flatfile, Replicate, and Modal
 are already experiencing what's next for CRM.
 Go to attio.com/lenny to get 15% off your first year.
 That's attio.com/lenny.
 Nabil, thank you so much for being here.
 Welcome to the podcast.
 Thanks, honey. Glad to be here.
 In our chat today,
 I want to zero in on a post that you recently wrote,
 where you shared your reflections on your time at Palantir.
 You spent something maybe just under eight years there.
 The reason I'm really interested in Palantir is
 I've been doing a bunch of research recently,
 looking into which companies hire the best product managers
 and create the best product managers,
 and Palantir just keeps coming up over and over
 in the work that I'm doing.
 I'll share a few stats real quick.
 I looked at which companies produce the most founders,
 especially out of their PM team,
 and Palantir is by far number one.
 30% of PMs that leave Palantir start a company,
 and that's like, and number two is 18% and that's intercom.
 That's that stat.
 I looked at which companies PMs that leave
 get immediately promoted in their next role.
 Palantir is number one of all companies in the world.
 I looked at which companies PMs become the first PM
 at another startup that they join.
 Palantir is number two in the world.
 And then I looked at which companies alumni PMs
 become heads of product down later in their career.
 Palantir is number three in the world.
 Also, just the company is doing extremely well.
 It's worth I think something like $200 billion these days.
 So there's a lot to learn from Palantir.
 I actually want to start a question that,
 I imagine every employee to Palantir constantly gets that,
 and I still don't think people totally have an answer in their head.
 What does Palantir do?
 That's a great question.
 You started off with an easy one, Lenny.
 So Palantir, the way I describe it, right,
 is they achieve outcomes for their customers very tactically.
 The way they do that tends to be through a data platform.
 So they have what I consider to be the world's best data platform,
 and I can go into what that means in a second.
 And then there's a couple different versions of this.
 So there's one that's optimized for intelligence and defense use cases.
 That one is called Gotham.
 And then there's one that's more optimized for commercial use cases,
 and that one's called Foundry.
 And that's kind of the classic, you know, explanation of what they do.
 So they sell a data platform.
 They typically work with very large customers is the other thing.
 So it's going to be, you know, Fortune 50.
 It's going to be governments around the world.
 It's going to be those kinds of customers.
 So that's the kind of capsule answer.
 But there's lots to unpack in that.
 Awesome. Okay.
 And we're going to touch on a lot of this stuff, including the data piece.
 I want to start with talking about just kind of the people and the culture of Palantir.
 You shared a bunch of really funny stories of what it's like to come to work
 and even even interview at Palantir.
 There's a story you shared where, because maybe the co-founder,
 you're walking by and he's chewing ice.
 And that's like some benefits of cognition.
 Just give us a picture of what the people are like,
 especially early days Palantir and the culture and how unique it might seem.
 Yeah. It's definitely, it's an end of one company.
 I don't know how else you would stop this company
 if you were not somebody like Peter Thiel.
 And so far as it seems like, you know, there was a point at which they owned
 the silly fraction of the office space in Palo Alto.
 So you'd walk around Palo Alto and it would just be, you know,
 Palantir, hoodies, Palantir buildings everywhere and so on.
 And so I feel like what happened at some point is they raised a lot of money
 and they resorted to all these really interesting ways of just getting top talent
 out of places like Stanford and other, you know, other top schools,
 and just people who knew the founders who tended to be very interesting
 into actual people.
 And I feel like they screened really hard for a few traits in particular, right?
 I would say one is like very independent minded people,
 people who weren't afraid to push back who, you know,
 questioned the frame of everything and thought for themselves
 and had sort of strong convictions.
 Two is just like people with broader intellectual interests.
 You know, cop, cop just released a new book.
 And, you know, he's quoting Habamas and all these European intellectuals
 and just things you don't typically see a tech CEO do.
 And so I think there's that intellectual strand in the company.
 Yeah, I think three is just people who are very intensely competitive.
 There's a sort of winnable cost mentality to the company.
 And so I think those were the kind of set of traits
 that were like this gravity while in California at a certain time.
 And so you just had a lot of really fascinating people
 joining the company at that time.
 The way they screened for this was interesting too, right?
 So for the longest time they had, everyone does this now, I think,
 but it's like, at the time it was a little bit rarer as a founder,
 had to interview you in order for you to receive an offer.
 And so a founder, it could have been Alex Karp.
 It could have been Stefan Cohen.
 Oh, you're on and might have been somebody electric once though,
 but it was always like one of these people.
 And the interviews were pretty strange.
 So, you know, with Stefan, it would be,
 you'd be chatting about philosophy for an hour and a half.
 And it would very much just be like,
 he would pick a topic out of thin air.
 It was impossible to prepare for.
 And then he would just go very, very deep and try and test the limits
 of your understanding.
 But it would really just be a fun conversation.
 And then, you know, if he passed the vibe check, he'd be in.
 And so there was that strong selection mechanism.
 There was also the question of, you know,
 I think it's, it might have been Teo who mentioned this,
 but he thinks that a lot of the best recruiters in the world
 will, like companies that attract talent,
 they put out this kind of distinctive bat signal.
 And it has to turn some people off.
 That's kind of the key of a good bat signal.
 Right?
 So I think in the present day, open AI ads topic,
 they're both sucking up like some of the best talent
 that you and I know.
 And I think one way they do do that,
 and they are sincere in this,
 but they do really attract people who are almost
 messianic about the potential of artificial super intelligence.
 Right?
 And who really believe this is the only thing that matters
 and it is going to be the biggest thing in the world.
 I think Palantir's version of that was that, you know,
 they were quite focused on things like preserving the West.
 You know, there was a slogan of Save the Shire.
 Right?
 So they were talking about military and defense
 and intelligence and the importance of that.
 Well, before everybody else.
 And bear in mind, this was during the era when it was like
 social mobile local apps, right?
 Like you had social media was on the rise.
 You had, you know, the hot companies were like Facebook
 and Pinterest and things like that.
 And so this was at the time a very strange thing.
 And so I think to be drawn to that, you had to look at
 the other options and say, well, this is fine.
 But what am I really doing in life, right?
 There's other place that was like, hey, consult the hardest,
 messiest problems in the world with us.
 And I think just at that time that really drew some really
 good people.
 We're going to talk about the thing.
 The reasons people don't necessarily like Palantir
 and kind of the moral question of what they do.
 But when people look at a company that is like, like,
 I guess, open eyes, to your point is a good example
 where they're just like so turned off by maybe their approach.
 What you're missing is that's potentially intentional
 because it actually draws in the people they really want.
 And I think about, I was involved in creating the core values
 that are being beat.
 And something that we learned at going through that process
 is when you define the values for your company,
 it's really important to clarify who this is not for,
 exactly as you described, which feels unnatural.
 Like, oh, we're going to be inclusive.
 We don't want to make people feel like them belong.
 But the whole idea is to be clear on heaters who will
 thrive here.
 And here's who's aligned with our mission.
 And when I'm hearing it's Palantir, and these companies
 take it to the extreme.
 100%. Yeah, on my team at Palantir, one process that we followed,
 I could talk about this more if it's interesting,
 is you had to, when you started a new project,
 you basically had to organize what they called a murder board
 for it.
 I think this is originally an army top, right?
 So the idea is basically you write up kind of a two-page plan
 for the project.
 You invite three or four smart folks who don't know anything
 about the project.
 And their job is just to tear apart your plan.
 Right.
 And so you have to write, like, here's a vision for this.
 They're the goals.
 They're, like, tactics over the next three months.
 And one section was principles that you're following for this
 project.
 And I remember giving this advice a lot.
 It was just, like, when people joined, they would write
 principles such as, you know, move fast.
 And I would always be like, everyone likes to move fast.
 So it's not a good principle, actually, because nobody can
 really disagree with this reasonably.
 Right.
 You need something that actually a lot of people are going to
 go, like, why are you, why are you taking this principle?
 This seems wrong to me.
 So you need something that people can disagree with.
 I want to come back to the beginning of what you described
 of what they look for, what balance your looks for in people.
 You talked about independent minded, a lot of interest,
 brought interest and competitive.
 First of all, I think a lot of people hearing that,
 especially last part, be like, I don't want to work there.
 Why does this work?
 Because this isn't naturally what you think of as how you build
 the most amazing productive team.
 Yeah.
 I think it just draws people who want to win.
 Right.
 Right.
 I think that's what was really important, though.
 The other piece of it, I think, is that there's actually,
 and this was much true a 10 years ago, right, is there was a lot
 of talent that was a little bit outside of the tech ecosystem,
 but could easily have been very successful within it.
 So, you know, people who got out of the military or one of
 the intelligence agencies, and they were doing, let's say,
 an MBA somewhere to transition into the corporate world.
 And I think typically they would have taken a position at a kind
 of classic fortune 500 corporation and actually pound them
 as to get a bunch of that talent.
 And at the time, that was very undervalued.
 You know, the people who succeed the most in the Marines
 or the special forces or whatever it is tends to be
 pretty smart people.
 They tend to have accomplished very difficult goals in very
 hostile environments.
 And it turns out that when you're starting a somewhat
 chaotic tech company, that's actually a very useful skill
 to have.
 Again, I think, you know, more companies are doing this now,
 so scale AI, Andrew, et cetera.
 But at the time, that was a very differentiated talent pool.
 And so I think having those values as opposed to maybe the
 values that were more in fashion than so talking about,
 you know, how inclusive you are or, you know, the sushi that
 you serve at lunch or whatever it is, it just drew a very
 different crowd.
 And I think the game that was being played there was one.
 It's mission alignment, right?
 Like you're doing a defense company.
 It's the kind of person you want to attract.
 But I think there's also two, which is just what is the
 talent that maybe is a little bit of the value now?
 And how do you actually draw those people to you?
 And I think that game is always shifting.
 This is definitely starting to explain why so many
 Palantier alumni go on to start companies and become
 leaders at other companies.
 Like, these are leaders that you're hiring.
 So it feels like a lot of it is just the talent you hire
 are people that are naturally leaders.
 I think you're right.
 And we can go into it.
 But I think there was also a very concrete set of ways
 where that place was a training ground for founders.
 I even think it turned a lot of people who might not
 have become founders into good founders because of just
 because of the way it works.
 So I think there was a selection effect there, but
 there is also some sort of training effect too.
 But it's kind of unique to the way the company works.
 And is that along the lines of the forward to play
 engineer stuff or is that something else?
 It is that.
 Okay, cool.
 We're going to get to that.
 I love it.
 The one last thing is something I've seen is that you guys
 at Palantir don't have really have titles.
 Everyone's kind of the same level and just like generic
 titles for everyone.
 Talk about that.
 Why do you think that was important?
 Why was that useful?
 I don't know this for sure.
 But I do know that Teal writes about this in zero to one.
 And his take is just that as soon as you have these titles,
 you have a thing that people are competing for.
 And then you get these very unproductive conflicts.
 You get people optimizing to game the system.
 You get good hearts low everywhere.
 It's like you have a metric.
 And then people basically manage to the metrics.
 There's a lot of interesting.
 I don't want to pick on any one company.
 But if you take Google, for example, there's a lot of
 interesting posts by people who left Google.
 And they cite this as a reason why they got a little bit
 disgruntled is that there's a way to get promoted rather than
 like, let's say, improving an existing product.
 What you do is you start a completely new product.
 And that has your name attached to it.
 And then when it comes to promotion season,
 you can say, hey, I did this new thing.
 And then boom, you have a new Google product.
 It's maybe confusing to the end users.
 So I think they wanted to avoid all of these kinds of
 dynamics, right?
 And so the way that they did that was they said, well,
 titles are not going to be this sort of mimatic totem that
 everybody competes for.
 Instead, everyone's just going to have the same slightly
 meaningless title, which is for an engineer.
 And the other people who did have titles were the CEO.
 And then there were six directors.
 And that was it.
 And now I think it's a little bit more nuanced.
 There are different teams.
 There are some people with titles.
 But honestly, it was almost like, we used to joke about it,
 right?
 It's like people would leave the company and then you'd see
 them update their LinkedIn and they would be like, oh,
 yeah, I was totally the SVP of, you know, XYZ.
 And it's like, where you learn?
 You just, you know, but then it's like, I totally understand
 it, too, because when you leave the company, you have to
 make your experience legible to the next person.
 And so guess what?
 Things like SVP actually do matter, right?
 And so yeah, I think they didn't, they wanted to avoid this kind
 of Intel competition.
 There are downsides to doing this, right?
 So maybe the competition isn't as explicit around a specific
 title, but instead what it becomes about is, you know,
 there's a particular exact or something and you want to
 gain that favor.
 And so it becomes more about, like, who can get in the
 inner circle of this person or whatever it is.
 And there were those dynamics, too.
 I actually am a big fan of this philosophy, though, the
 no titles one.
 I think what it did do is that it basically said you, if you
 are in, let's say you're in a role of you're leading a very
 important project, right, which would happen.
 What it said was, this is always fluid.
 So you are in this role because you're very good.
 And so it's a meritocratic thing.
 But if you stop performing well, it's actually very easy to
 shift that because there is no explicit, like, I am the
 core manager of this project kind of title.
 And so you always have to kind of earn your place in the
 company.
 You always have to earn the right to work on what you are
 working on.
 I think that was a good side effect.
 Let's start talking about forward deployed engineers.
 What is a forward deployed engineer?
 Yeah.
 So the way this originated was basically, you can think of
 it as there's two types of engineer pounds.
 So there's one that works on the core product.
 So they don't necessarily leave the building in Palo Alto
 or New York where the office is.
 They're very much working on the core products and their
 traditional software engineer because of the way the
 company works.
 We had these very large engagements with these large
 entities.
 There was a different type of engineer which you sent into
 the field, right.
 So what that meant was you would spend maybe Monday
 Thursday and you would actually go into the building where
 the customer worked and you would work alongside them.
 You would literally get a desk there.
 And so that engineer became known as a forward deployed
 engineer.
 So within the company, that function is known as business
 development or BD.
 And then PD is product development.
 So it's where the product is made.
 And so within BD, you had forward deployed engineers.
 There are actually two types.
 So there is one that is sort of a more technical software
 engineer.
 So you have to pass the software engineering interview
 and prove your chops there.
 And you would typically have a CS degree.
 But there was actually a type of forward deployed engineer
 that didn't have that.
 So you would still, you would still get sort of a technical
 interview, but it would be less about, you know, the
 specifics of this C++ algorithm.
 And it would be more about just like, can you reason about
 data?
 And we kind of didn't have that originally.
 But it turns out that there's a lot of people who are, you
 know, technical adjacent, shall we say, who you really
 need in the room when you're working with these large
 organizations, with these large companies.
 Because, you know, translating what you're doing into
 language that would resonate with an executive or being
 able to kind of navigate a social dynamics in a room.
 All of these are very valuable skills.
 And so the hiring criteria that were a little different,
 right.
 It was a bit more about like all you savvy as a human.
 But, you know, all of that was given the title of
 forward deployed engineer.
 And it's just an engineer who works with customers.
 Okay.
 So just to make this crystal clear for people, because a lot of
 people hear this idea of talent you're having for
 deployed engineers.
 A few other companies have done this.
 It's pretty radical.
 So as you describe, you basically have a desk at a
 company.
 So you worked with Airbus and we'll talk about that.
 We'll just make it real.
 So you have a desk and a computer and login access and
 all these things at Airbus at York.
 You go to their office four times a week.
 You're sitting there with their employees working, like
 side by side, building a product for them versus what
 most people do.
 Or they just talk to customers and quotes.
 Or they do an interview once in a while.
 They do a Zoom.
 They share mocks.
 Things like that.
 This is like that on steroids.
 Is that roughly the way to think about it?
 It is.
 And so we would really be there a lot of the time.
 And so the side effect of that was one, you learned to
 live and breathe the customer's problems.
 And you learned to speak their language.
 And eventually they saw you sort of as one of them.
 And so you develop these really close bonds with the
 customers.
 So Airbus, I would be at the factory where the planes
 were produced.
 Or I'd be sitting next to, you know, people diagnosing issues
 with aircraft or whatever it was.
 Similarly, later when I worked with the NIH, which was part
 of the US government.
 And I actually had a badge there.
 And I would work with civil servants and biologists
 and clinicians and people who were working there.
 And so it's this pretty radical thing, as you suggest.
 I think the key thing there from a business point of
 view, right, is the average kind of deal that
 Pounds I had was very large, right?
 It's in the many, many millions of dollars, which means that
 you could kind of pay for this as part of the thing that the
 customer got.
 And then it was sort of price according to the value that
 the customer got, right?
 So as a simple example, like if you're Airbus and you're,
 let's say that you have an issue with one of your planes
 and you need to fix it and fixing that as worth, you know,
 $100 billion or something to you, that's how it would be
 priced.
 It would not be priced as, hey, you're buying data
 infrastructure.
 And it's similar to Snowflake or Databricks or one of these
 other providers.
 It's much more anchored to here is the outcome.
 But then the job of the four deployed engineers, not just
 to deploy software, it is not just to sell software.
 It is to actually solve the problem.
 And so you would have to be there.
 You would have to meet the key stakeholders who are actually
 in charge of reporting to the CEO about this specific issue.
 You would have to become their friend.
 You would have to gain that trust.
 And you would have to, in some cases, create new software
 such that it could actually solve the novel problem that
 was in front of you, right?
 So I would have friends who worked with one of our energy
 company customers.
 And they would have to learn the ins and outs of how oil
 wells work, right?
 And then out of that, it turns out that having streaming data
 is actually very valuable for this use case.
 And so boom, suddenly there's a product that can handle
 streaming data that becomes part of the core platform.
 But that would be the motion is you learn about the problem.
 You figure out what software would best address it.
 You build that software.
 You use it to accomplish the goal.
 And then eventually that kind of gets folded into the broader
 product suite.
 And so you can start to see why this would be a good
 force for the founders, right?
 And this was actually part of my thesis going in and
 joining was I said, well, say I got five reps of this,
 which I got more than that, right?
 But to say you get five reps of doing this in five disparate
 contexts, you actually become very good at this cycle of like,
 okay, go into the building, gain the trust of the person,
 meet the people that are going to become your users,
 talk to them about their problems, make sure you're building
 something that actually solves them.
 And, you know, it's just a boom double.
 Get really fast feedback and iteration loops, right?
 So every week you would have like a cadence where it's like
 Monday you go and you do your meetings.
 Monday night you build something.
 Tuesday you show it to somebody.
 Tuesday you get the feedback.
 Tuesday night you iterate on it.
 Wednesday you show it to somebody.
 Wednesday night you iterate on it.
 So you get like four of these five of these cycles every
 single week and you're moving incredibly fast.
 And so this week's in, you've suddenly gone to, wow, this is
 really valuable and somebody's willing to pay you whatever
 $20 million for it.
 And boom, like I think this is why you get so many kind of
 founders coming out of this same process.
 It's becoming very clear why so many founders emerge that
 are bound here.
 Okay, so an important element of this as you described is
 that the idea here is build this as a one off solution to
 solve a real problem at say Airbus or some government
 organization.
 And then the idea is you create something out of that, that
 then volunteer consult other companies.
 What's extra cool about that is you they pay you to solve
 this problem for them.
 And then that is funding this other product that
 palantyr can now sell to everyone.
 What a cool, what a cool business.
 However, early days palantyr everyone thought it was
 just the services business or just consultants building
 software for companies like Airbus.
 There's no way they can make this a platform that works
 for a lot of people.
 Clearly, that's what's happening and it worked out.
 That's kind of like the holy grail, solve one
 customer's problem and then sell it to everyone else.
 Every, every SaaS business basically would love to do
 this.
 What, what do you think allowed them to actually achieve
 this and be good at this?
 What are some principles that, that worked?
 Yeah, that's a great question.
 And it's true.
 I think that from what I joined until maybe until
 IPO and a little bit after, you know, I was told,
 hey, isn't this basically like a sparkling extension, right?
 Isn't it a consulting business kind of laughing as a
 product company?
 And eventually it became undeniable.
 One because, you know, I always laugh when people are
 like, what does Palantyr do?
 It's like, you can go onto YouTube and the search
 palantyr demo and you'll get plenty of demos of how
 the software looks.
 Not many people know about this, but you can go and
 sign up with the credit card right now and start using
 it.
 I can have a Palantyr account.
 You actually can.
 I did not know that.
 Yeah.
 I think it's called AIP now.
 So it's not actually that mystical.
 There is a product.
 And if you look at the margins, they show that, right?
 So they have like 80% plus margins, which is not really
 what you would get if you were actually a consulting
 company would be closer to 20 of those.
 So then your question was, well, how did they actually
 achieve this?
 I think there was just incredible talent in the
 product development organization.
 Like really top tier, incredible talent.
 And it took somebody, it took some really, really smart
 people to take the set of internal tools that we were
 using at the time to create value of customers.
 And then go, what is the unified version of this?
 What is the thing that?
 What would this look like if this were a product?
 And out of that process that I saw came foundry.
 I assumed there was a similar process with Gotham a
 while back.
 But basically it's like the motion was that you would
 go in and early on, you were basically armed with
 Jupyter Notebooks and some kind of data integration
 stuff.
 But it was very primitive.
 You had to create value that way.
 But we kept building tooling that was useful for
 forward deployed engineers.
 So we were our first customers.
 And at some point, there was this concept of, wait,
 what if we take our internal tools and we let our
 customers use them?
 And I remember at the time, this is a really radical
 idea.
 And then Sean is one of his, I think he's a CTO.
 Maybe he's a president now.
 He just mandated like, okay, every customer deployment
 you have to have a customer using this within three
 months or whatever it is.
 And so it was horrible at the time because these had
 been built for these nerdy Silicon Valley engineers.
 And so they weren't particularly usable.
 They were crash all the time.
 You'd have to debug spark errors or whatever it was.
 But basically, that process brought a lot more rigor
 to our thinking about the product.
 And out of that kind of, I would say three or four
 year process came the foundry product.
 And then there was a lot of focus around things like
 performance and reliability and so on.
 That was all really painful.
 And so, yeah, I think the answer was just talent.
 And then there was this recognition that we do know
 things that most people do not know about how data works
 in large organizations.
 That was the other thing.
 We discovered a lot of, you know, quote unquote secrets
 in this process of living with customers for so long.
 The basic one was just data integration is massively
 painful inside organizations.
 This is very hard to understand unless you've worked
 in a large organization, but it's actually impossible
 to even now to get access to a lot of your own internal
 data that you need to do your job, right?
 So your history is of people being like, I'm trying to
 calculate all sales, this quarter.
 And I had to wait six weeks for some other analytics team
 to get me this deliverable, right?
 And so just the knowing problems like that and being able
 to focus our product efforts around those problems
 meant that we were able to build something
 generalizable there.
 Okay.
 There's a lot here.
 First of all, you talk about Gotham and foundry.
 I know that we'll link to videos of people checking
 these out, but just what's the simplest way to understand
 what these two products do?
 Yep.
 So Gotham is optimized for military and defense use cases
 and in tell as well.
 I would say they both have some things in common, right?
 So they both have -- I would describe this almost as a
 pyramid where the bottom layer is data investment,
 the middle layer is data mapping, and then the top layer
 is anything that's user facing.
 So any UI component, right?
 And then if you think of foundry for a second, right,
 there's different tools that allow you to ingest data to it.
 There's different tools that allow you to easily build
 data pipelines and clean up data, which everybody has to do.
 And then there's a bunch of tooling that allows you to
 build compelling UIs on top, do point-and-click analytics,
 do, you know, notebook style workflows, which have a kind of
 however technical you are.
 And so that's what I mean when it's a platform.
 It's a suite of things that has kind of a common data backing
 but contains a bunch of different applications.
 And so I think that is somewhat true of Gotham as well.
 But you kind of, when you log in, you see this unified interface,
 right?
 So what is the actual difference then?
 I would say with Gotham, you're looking much more at workflows
 like that involve maps, for example, right?
 So when you're doing a military operation, like a lot of the
 time, you are going to be looking at a map and you are
 going to be monitoring, you know, the movement of troops
 or tanks or whatever it is.
 Another big difference is the idea of graph-based analysis.
 So Gotham, one of the kind of early use cases, right, was
 finding, combing through networks of terrorists and basically
 finding the bad guys.
 And so being able to do queries that are sort of graph-based
 was important, right?
 So it's like, who is everybody that Lenny called in the last
 week?
 Imagine like all the nodes kind of fanning out from there.
 And then it's like, okay, well, this one looks interesting.
 Let's zoom in on that.
 What is this person's location, right?
 And so it's just like very graph-based way of thinking.
 That also applies to things like fraud.
 And so Gotham has been deployed against fraud.
 But if you look at Foundry, it doesn't actually emphasize
 that component so much because it turns out, you know, let's
 say you're a B2B SAS company, you're probably not doing
 that much graph-based analysis.
 You're doing things that look a lot more like classic sequel
 queries, tables, that kind of stuff.
 And so Foundry is a lot more kind of traditional in that way.
 That was an amazing explanation.
 For the first time, I'm starting to understand what
 these products do.
 So basically it just sucks in a bunch of data, cleans it up so
 you can actually trust it and then helps you interact with
 it in various use cases, maps, graphs, tables.
 Yes.
 Okay.
 Amazing.
 The example you gave of what you worked on at Airbus,
 you described it as basically a sauna for making planes.
 Is that right?
 Yes.
 Yes.
 So how much of that becomes like a part of this core
 product versus stays this one-off thing?
 Like is it elements?
 Oh, that's a cool innovation.
 Let's put that into Foundry.
 How does that work?
 This was a really interesting story, actually.
 So the initial problem that we came into with Airbus was that
 they had a new aircraft, probably a 350.
 Beautiful aircraft, by the way.
 If you get to, I think if you fly New York to Singapore,
 it's often an F3, A350.
 Really nice.
 And so it was a relatively new aircraft at the time.
 And their mandate to us was, okay, we need to ramp up
 production of this really fast, much faster than we've ever
 done it before.
 So it's like the numbers are very approximate, right?
 But it's like, okay, we're producing full of this month.
 We need to do eight the next month, 16 the month after,
 and so forth.
 And you're going to help us do it.
 And so this goes back to what I was saying earlier is the
 mandate wasn't like, hey, we need to upgrade our data
 infrastructure.
 We thought you guys would be met the list of requirements.
 It was much more just like, please help us accomplish
 this mission.
 This is like the big thing.
 And so we went in.
 It's good to have the problem.
 There are a bunch of different things that we could build
 that helped accelerate this.
 But one of the basic problems that we figured out was that
 without going too much into the weeds, the way the factory
 would work is that there's a bunch of stations.
 And you can think of the, the plane is literally moving
 between each station.
 And then each station would do a certain set of work on it.
 Right.
 So initially it's literally like a big fuselage.
 And the fuselage is sitting there.
 And then people are doing a bunch of work orders against
 it.
 They need parts in order to do that work.
 And then at some point they say, okay, this is ready to move
 to station 31.
 And the plane is physically moved to the next station.
 And then station 31 does its next thing.
 So in order for the next station to do its work properly,
 they need to know one, like what work was done at the
 previous station and what work is remaining.
 Two is just like if you think about this problem, like not
 all work is going to get done on time.
 And so things kind of carry over, right, to the next team
 and the next team then has to kind of like.
 And so when I'm describing this problem to you, you can
 kind of start to visualize, okay, maybe I need some sort of
 gap chart to this and I need the ability to click in and
 say, okay, what it actually, what did station 30 do and what
 work orders remained undone.
 And then it's like, okay, for those work orders, what parts
 do I need and where the factory might be.
 And so this was very, very hard to do as it is.
 A lot of it was just relying on people going and having
 conversations with other people on the factory floor.
 And, you know, coming from tech where it's maybe not
 as complicated as building aircraft.
 That is a phenomenally complicated process.
 But it is easy to see, like, okay, you can actually improve
 this problem with software, right.
 They also, all that data was stored in SAP and, you know,
 SAP is like established software.
 It's good at what it does.
 But it's not the most user friendly necessarily, especially
 if you're not an expert in how it stores data.
 The table names are very hard to understand and read.
 And so one of the things we figured out was just if you
 can pull in these tables that may as well be written in
 completely alien language, like the table name would just be
 like S3, F1, underscore Z or something like that, right.
 And you'd have to know, like, okay, this is the table
 where the part ID store does something.
 If you could pull in those tables and join them in the
 right ways and then just map them to human concepts that
 humans can understand.
 So things like a part, a work order, an aircraft, et
 cetera, and basically build a kind of hierarchy or mapping
 between them.
 Then what you can do is for a user, a user can just log in
 and say, okay, aircraft 79, where is that?
 Okay, it's at station 31.
 All right, these are the work orders, et cetera.
 And so you've translated it into a more human-legible thing.
 And so the thing we build, I mean, I kind of slightly
 flippantly described it as a sauna.
 It's a little different, but basically that's what it did.
 Was it gave you a unified view of, okay, this is what's
 going on inside the factory.
 This is the work that needs to be done in this particular
 plane.
 And then me today, going to my job at station 31, what
 work orders do I need to fulfill and where are the
 parts that I need to do that.
 And so it does directly become a part of Foundry, not
 exactly because, you know, the way that other companies work
 is not going to be using this same set of concepts.
 But the overall idea of taking a bunch of tables
 and then mapping them to human understandable concepts
 was a very powerful one.
 And so this actually resulted in a big piece of Foundry now,
 which they call ontology.
 You probably heard this, you know, term, as you've seen.
 If you see patterns of presentations, they always talk
 about ontology.
 This is what they actually mean by that.
 It is a set of concepts that is understandable to you as a
 human.
 And you're not having to go and dig around and do SQL queries.
 You're just able to say, like, where is the aircraft now?
 And where is it going next?
 Right.
 And so the ontology became a huge piece of Foundry.
 It was directly informed by the learnings that we had
 from building that application inside that factory.
 And I would say it's still a very big differentiated
 today.
 Like, I don't think too many other companies ship this kind
 of stuff yet.
 Wow, I love how excited you still are about this.
 Because I could see it being so fulfilling to solve this
 big problem.
 I saw a stat that I think you forexed their productivity.
 What was the number there?
 It was, yeah, I did recall the exact stat.
 But we did ramp up production.
 I think at least forex that one year, which, I mean,
 obviously they did this and we just helped with it.
 But, you know, that CEO said that we played a critical
 pod.
 Also, you moved to France, I think for this.
 That was like how forward deployed you were.
 You lived in France for how long?
 Yeah.
 I lived in France for about a year and a half.
 The way they built their planes is they manufactured
 different components around Europe.
 So they built, you know, the tail in Spain.
 And if he's large in part of the UK and Germany and so
 forth.
 Right.
 And so they basically ship everything to France to be
 assembled at the end.
 But you can imagine this is a very messy process.
 And so I was mostly in France, but there would be weeks
 where I'd have to kind of fly between all these countries
 just to kind of figure out where things were.
 And your poster wrote about how just the life of
 forward deployed engineers is pretty crazy.
 You just get a call sometimes like, hey, you're
 flying to this random country tomorrow.
 Get ready.
 Is that just life as a forward deployed engineer?
 It is.
 Yeah.
 The company had a very, I would say, aggressive attitude
 towards travel in the sense of when you join, you were
 basically told, look, you have to be okay with travel.
 Are you okay with that?
 Right.
 And the attitude, which again, I think is a very
 founder-friendly one, is you need to be willing to just
 jump on a plane that night, if that's the best thing to do
 for this customer.
 And if it's going to get us to where it needs to be to
 win.
 And so there were many times when it would be like, oh,
 I need to take this cross continental flight tomorrow
 for this particular thing, because it will be useful.
 Right.
 And so I think that's one of the kind of takeaways for me
 was just like being a person is so, so, so valuable when
 you are working with some external party.
 Just going there for a few days and spending time with them,
 maybe going out for dinner, you build so much more trust than
 if you're trying to close a customer over Zoom or do
 an engagement over Zoom.
 It's just the vibe is completely different.
 And so yeah, getting on a plane was a really cool part of
 our job for a very long time.
 This obviously changed around 2020 because COVID happened,
 the company IPO, and so then it could be a bit more
 internal controls around this.
 But I would say pre 2020, this is like a very big part
 of the culture.
 I'm excited to have Andrew Luo joining us today.
 Andrew is CEO of one schema, one of our long time
 podcast sponsors.
 Welcome, Andrew.
 Thanks for having me, Lenny.
 Great to be here.
 So what is new with one schema?
 I know that you work with some of my favorite companies
 like Ramp and Vansa and Watershed.
 I heard you guys launched a new data intake product that
 automates the hours of manual work that teams spend
 importing and mapping and integrating CSV and Excel files.
 Yes.
 So we just launched the 2.0 of one schema file feeds.
 We have rebuilt it from the ground up with AI.
 We saw so many customers coming to us with teams of
 data engineers that struggled with the manual work
 required to clean messy spreadsheets.
 File feeds 2.0 allows non-technical teams to automate
 the process of transforming CSV and Excel files with
 just a simple prompt.
 We support all of the trickiest file integrations,
 SFTP, S3, and even email.
 I can tell you that if my team had to build integrations
 like this, how nice would it be to take this off our roadmap
 and instead use something like one schema?
 Absolutely, Lenny.
 We've heard so many horror stories of outages from even
 just a single bad record.
 In transactions, employee files, purchase orders,
 you name it.
 Debugging these issues is often like finding a needle in
 a haystack.
 One schema stops any bad data from entering your system
 and automatically validates your files, generating error
 reports with the exact issues in all bad files.
 I know that importing incorrect data can cause all
 kinds of pain for your customers and quickly lose their trust.
 Andrew, thank you so much for joining me.
 If you want to learn more, head on over to one schema.co.
 That's one schema.co.
 There's a lot of founders listening to this and a
 question that I'm thinking and they're probably thinking
 and there's kind of two questions here.
 One is just when to go, like how hardcore to go,
 potentially with their own forward deployed sort of
 operation.
 And then two is just how, and a company I know is
 actually doing this, how far to go with one company's
 problem and invest in just like, we're going to nail
 solving this one customer's problem with the hope that
 this is something we can abstract and sell as a big
 platform.
 So let me start there and you're building a company.
 And he just, I guess, insights or advice and just how far
 to go down this road of we will solve customer one's
 problem.
 And we bet that this is going to be a big opportunity
 for a lot of other companies.
 So I would say on the, on the forward deployed piece,
 my friend Barry McCardle, who's the CEO of Hex, the
 analytics company, he wrote a really good post about this
 actually.
 And his take was just like, you probably don't need
 forward deployed engineers.
 It's very specific.
 But I think basically the, the thing there is you have to
 be willing to be quite almost wasteful.
 Like you have to be willing to invest a lot in finding
 the thing.
 And for that, you just need a certain ticket size, right?
 So you need each customer's revenue to be probably in
 the billions of dollars.
 If it's below that, you're probably not looking at a
 traditional forward deployed engineer motion.
 It's something a little bit different.
 And so, you know, I think one thesis that a lot of people
 left Palanté with and started companies around was there's
 a lot of, a lot of customers that Palanté weren't served
 because, you know, maybe they're too small a ticket size.
 And so actually you could go and do something like Palanté
 for those companies.
 But instead of charging them $5 million, you're charging
 them $250k.
 And so in a scenario like that, you might still have
 forward deployed engineers.
 But they're not really, they're not going to France
 and spending five days a week in a factory.
 It's more like you'll have one person and they're looking
 after, you know, five different customer accounts.
 It's more of that ratio in order to make the numbers work.
 And so I think a lot of the principles can be, can be
 targeted from that experience.
 But it is a really specific sales motion that depends on
 a specific way of doing business.
 I think it's your other question.
 Yeah, I think there's, it's, it's obviously one something
 that is very hard to give a general answer to.
 My main thing here is just that you can definitely tell
 when you are just doing consulting and when you are
 closer to building a product.
 And I think the error that people make more often than not
 are actually too stuck on their own product vision.
 That's the mistake I've seen a little bit more actually
 than the other way around.
 Right.
 So if you, if you go to, I'm trying to give an example.
 If you go to an enterprise customer and let's say you,
 you think you're doing analytics software and it turns
 out they don't actually care about internal analytics
 this much.
 They actually have this other massive burning problem
 and they don't have a good solution to it.
 Yeah.
 I think a lot of people are unwilling to go and pivot
 to the big problem because they're like, well, we're
 analytics software.
 And so maybe this customer is a fit for our thing.
 And maybe that's the right call.
 In some scenarios, that is the right call.
 You should go find a different customer where you think
 resonates more.
 In other scenarios, it's actually the right call to
 pivot and go just put everything on that big problem
 instead and then go and find other customers for that thing.
 There's no hard and fast rule.
 I remember reading a really interesting post by,
 I think it was David Sue from Retool who had this exact
 thing.
 And I think he worked at Pounder for a while too.
 And he said that they had the Retool product and it wasn't
 getting any traction at all.
 And then he tried an outbound email campaign where he
 literally just changed the subject line to build internal
 tools easily.
 And then suddenly they started getting all these
 replies from CTOs who were just like, oh, yeah, this is
 actually a huge pain point for me.
 But the exact same solution, they were previously kind of
 framing it as, I think it was like supercharged Excel or
 something like that, and nobody was biting.
 And so they just changed the way they framed it, found a
 different set of buyers and succeeded that way.
 So, yeah, no, no hard and fast rule.
 But I think it's always, you need to kind of have this
 matrix of options in your mind and be very deliberate
 about which one you are going with and why.
 I think your piece of advice is really important.
 They're usually, in your experience, you're saying
 people index too far too.
 Like, no, what they're asking you to do is not kind of
 what I think they need or what customers will need.
 You're saying it's actually more likely that they're
 right.
 And that's maybe where you should be focusing more
 versus this kind of abstract vision and original idea
 you had.
 I think so.
 Yeah, I think it's very hard to not be anchored to your
 own experience and your conceptions as a problem.
 And one thing I've seen in really strong founders is
 they're able to sort of drop a bunch of those assumptions
 and almost treat something, a new opportunity as a
 completely black slate.
 And then just figure out how to reshape things so that
 you're taking advantage of that.
 And that's how you don't get stuck in a local maximum.
 Your other piece of advice is also really great.
 So people hear this and they're like, we can't afford an
 engineer to sit at one customer per aspect office
 and build stuff for them.
 But your point is you can have one for five different
 customers.
 They're not there full time.
 They kind of bounce around, but they're kind of,
 it's almost like sales engineering, just like,
 would you call it sparkling sales?
 Or do they help make it successful?
 I know Looker is a famous example.
 They think they called them forward deployed engineers.
 Do you know any other companies, by the way,
 that did some version of forward deployed engineers?
 There's a lot.
 I mean, I know that the AR labs are hiring forward
 deployed engineers now.
 They're building forward deployed engineering teams.
 And, you know, they could make it work, right?
 But I think there's going to be key differences, right?
 Like, I don't see anthropic going into an enterprise
 customer and building some entirely from scratch solution
 for them.
 It's going to be something that leverages the anthropics
 out of products.
 So there's a lot of companies that have this label now,
 but I think what's really confusing about it is just
 that it means a few different things.
 There's another close by Ted Maybury, who's, I think,
 the head of commercial at Palantir.
 And that's a very good one to point with this, too.
 So say someone was, I want to try this sort of thing
 in my company.
 And what would be like, if you pull a point of things,
 they should get right.
 You're describing, kind of, the spectrum of what people
 describe as forward deployed engineers.
 If they were to try to do this, what do you think they
 need to most do correctly for it to be successful?
 The key things that made all model work were one.
 They were actually real engineers who could build
 product themselves.
 That's a very big difference, right?
 I think a lot of the time companies will say
 this person's a forward deployed engineer.
 But actually, obviously, that to be more of a solutions
 effect, or they're not necessarily building anything
 to no vote.
 They're just listening and trying to find a way of
 deploying the existing product.
 They're not empowered to do new product.
 And so the really radical thing Palantir said was no,
 like, go in.
 And if you need a completely new product to do this,
 you can go ahead and build it.
 And I think that's really the key difference.
 The other stuff, you know, I've already mentioned
 the value of being in person and I think building
 close personal bonds with your customers.
 I do think the better founders do this anyway, right?
 Like, they're on texting terms with debt buyers.
 They become friends with them outside of work.
 And they see them as humans when they're trying to help.
 I think that's very motivating.
 Gaining a really deep understanding of the business
 that your customers are in and knowing how
 those dynamics work.
 So, you know, a simple example might be, you know,
 like, say, hospitals in America, right?
 Like, I think if you go into it, it's very counter
 intuitive to think of a hospital as a business,
 people think of it as, you know, it's a place
 where you get healthcare, right?
 But actually, like, if you kind of view it the way a
 CEO or a CMO views it, it's going to look very, very
 different to, as a very simple example.
 Sorry, this is a little bit dark, but, you know,
 how kind of restaurants want to turn over tables as
 fast as possible in order to kind of maximize their
 revenue for the day.
 Hospitals actually kind of want to do the same
 patience, right?
 They would like to treat you and then get you out of a bed
 so you can free up the bed to get a new person in there.
 And so, that's not super intuitive unless you kind
 of think hard about how the revenue for that
 hospital works.
 But then once you think about it, you're like,
 oh, this has a bunch of problems associated with it,
 right?
 And you start to go in really interesting directions.
 So.
 There's just like the words and memes and take you
 a long way working and understanding it.
 Okay, so essentially, things you want to get right,
 make sure it's in person, make sure the person is
 technical, make sure they have a deep understanding
 of the business and the problems they're having.
 The technical piece is interesting with AI tools
 these days, making everyone technical in some sense.
 You could argue this is going to become more common.
 People can just, you know, open up cursor,
 wouldn't serve and just start adding features.
 I think this is a really interesting piece
 that you've just hit on, and I expect to see a lot
 more startups that take advantage of that insight.
 It basically makes forward to playing engineers
 cheaper.
 Exactly.
 What is the current state of forward
 to play engineers in Palantir?
 Like, how much has it changed over the past few years?
 Like, have you joined now?
 Is this still something you can do?
 Yeah, of course.
 I mean, I should obviously emphasize that one,
 I left the company in 2023, and so this is just
 my personal view, and I'd speak for them.
 I think that, you know, if you think about it, right,
 the thing that one of the kind of metrics that the
 company had to measure its own success was essentially
 revenue per engineer, right?
 And so the more kind of, quote unquote,
 product leverage you had, the higher that number was.
 So if you had to throw a lot of people at every
 marginal problem, then you weren't doing so well at
 that because you're basically building a new thing
 every single time, and you are, in fact, a consulting
 business.
 If, on the other hand, every time you encounter a new
 customer, the product turns out to be kind of relevant
 to them, then great.
 And so this product leverage metric was actually a very
 unique thing, and kind of a north star for the
 company for the whole time others there.
 If you reason that out, what that means is that in
 the early state of the company, you will have a
 customer, and then you might have five to 10 engineers
 working at that customer, right?
 And so over time, you want that ratio.
 So you want it to be, you know, each customer,
 because the product is so powerful, maybe AI
 coding's got a lot better.
 Each customer, you only need two people.
 And then maybe you actually get to a point where you
 can have one person looking after multiple customers.
 And I think that's how the job has changed is now
 it's a little bit more about you have multiple
 customers, maybe you're spending less, like, deep
 time with each individual, one of them.
 But it's a lot clearer what problem you're solving
 across multiple customers.
 And you have more of a kind of defined offering.
 And so I do think that has been a bit of a change.
 But the company remains a very interesting and
 dynamic place to be.
 Like, in some sense, the stories are starting, right?
 Because one lens through which you can view this
 company is they spent 20 years basically building the
 model of all data foundations for every important
 institution world.
 And guess what's very valuable now that AI models are
 out is proprietary data that isn't public.
 Suddenly you have access to that and you are in a
 very privileged position to help your customers deploy
 AI in a way that makes them successful and that
 solves real business problems.
 That is essentially the ball thesis for this
 company and why it's probably going to, you know,
 100x again, right?
 And so it's still a really interesting time to join.
 But I do think the kind of nature of the ratio of
 people to a customer, for example, is one big
 difference now.
 Not investment advice, but it might 100x.
 That's, I totally understand why that might happen.
 So let's talk about the data piece.
 You said that this was one of the secrets of
 volunteer success.
 There's early insight into the power of ingesting
 data, cleaning data, being able to analyze and work
 with it.
 What, what a marketing share there, just like what they
 figured out about why this is so valuable, why it's
 so hard and how they achieved it.
 I think it's just very obvious as soon as you step
 into a corporation and spend a couple of days there,
 right, is you're like, all right, like, let's suppose
 your job is to increase sales.
 Okay.
 So the first thing you want to do is get a clear
 picture of what's going on.
 All right.
 So, like, let me go and query the sales database.
 Oh, wait.
 Where is the sales database?
 I can't get access to this.
 Okay.
 I need to file an access ticket.
 All right.
 So you have to wait one week, right?
 And so everywhere we went, this was the big
 point was we have to wait six, eight weeks just to get
 data access.
 And then when you do get data access, it's not like
 the data isn't easily queryable format.
 You actually really have to know what you're doing in
 order to get the right metrics out and so on and so
 forth.
 And so it turned out like, okay.
 It's this iceberg analogy where the actual analysis is
 actually just the tip of the iceberg.
 It's kind of the last five or 10%.
 And the 95% before that is I am gaining access to the
 data.
 I am cleaning the data.
 I'm joining the data.
 I'm normalizing it.
 Putting it all the same for that.
 And so once we spotted that, then it's like, okay, there's
 actually a lot of product to be built there just to make
 that process easier.
 This is one way I think.
 People don't think of Palantir as this place where
 innovative new products and UX ideas come out, but I
 actually think it's been one of the most generative
 companies for that specifically in the last 20 years.
 It's just that most of that didn't see the light of day.
 And so people don't know.
 But if you look at the product primitives that they
 developed in order to make the things I just mentioned a lot
 easier, they're actually really valuable and interesting and
 could probably form the basis of independent companies
 themselves.
 And so, yeah.
 Like, it just took like every single step of that
 process became much, much easier once there was a software
 solution around it, right?
 So if you talk about data ingestion, there's essentially
 a kind of universal data adapter that's part of
 Foundry.
 It can read anything.
 So JDBC, S3 buckets, whatever you want.
 And it can pull that, it allows you to kind of look into
 the data, maybe preview the first 20 rows, and then it
 allows you, when you're ready to set up a schedule and just
 pull it in on some cadence.
 So the process alone for an engineer used to take a
 long time, especially pre-vibe coding, and managing all
 those cron jobs and doing this on a little VM somewhere
 inside the customer's tenant was a huge pain, right?
 And so you productize that piece.
 Then it's like, okay, once you have the data, it's like,
 how do you actually join it?
 What if you're non-technical?
 Is there like a -- is there a way for a non-technical user to
 be able to join tables and see what the result is?
 And so there's all these, like, very fascinating business
 problems that -- because I think the access was very
 difficult to get and people hadn't really solved before.
 And so there was a lot of white space to do some
 product innovation.
 So now I would say Foundry is definitely the best data
 platform in the world, just because it has all these
 different applications within it that solve these discrete
 parts.
 And it's just -- it came out of this years of painful
 experience watching people have to clean data and join it
 and figure out what this table name meant and so on and so
 on.
 >> You shared in your post this kind of evocative story of
 some people's jobs is just kind of gate-keep the data.
 Like, they're there to help you to give you access to this
 very valuable data within the organization and how hard
 it is to get -- like, that was a lot of this work is just
 breaking through those political battles of, like,
 okay, we need this data for the good of the company and
 took a lot of work, I guess, anything there you want to add.
 >> It is.
 Yeah.
 I mean, it's a huge pain.
 And there are good reasons for it, right?
 Like, it's not like folks are malicious here.
 If you're IT or if you're an infosec type person, then your
 goal is to prevent data breaches and to make sure that
 sensitive information doesn't spread too wide.
 And so what's the easiest way to do that is to lock the
 data down and, you know, basically be a gatekeeper for
 access, right?
 >> I think where it got a little bit more interesting was
 where your skills are valuable and depend on you
 bank the gatekeeper.
 So what I mean by that is, like, let's say I'm the guy
 who understands the way the sales calculation pipeline
 works, right?
 And I write this equal for it.
 Older requests from business SMEs come to me.
 I have a big queue of them.
 It takes me weeks to get through this queue.
 I have a great job.
 I have great job security.
 And people depend on me, right?
 And so now along comes this company and they're like,
 hey, actually, we want to make sales data available to
 everyone and we want to make it point and click.
 Suddenly you're like, hey, like, hang on.
 What am I going to do, right?
 And so that's where I think there was a lot of difficulty.
 And I always say, you know, people are like, what are
 pounces competitors?
 I don't think it's the ones you would think of
 necessarily.
 Pounces biggest competitor is a company rolling its
 own solution.
 Right?
 And so the biggest difference would just be,
 I see a CIO saying, I'm going to build my own data
 infrastructure.
 I'm going to own it.
 It's going to be on top of one of the hyperscalers.
 And we're all just going to do our own analytics
 ourselves.
 And what we came along with, which was quite disruptive to
 this model, was saying, no, actually, all your data is
 going to get ingested into this one platform and everybody
 in your company is going to use it.
 The tradeoff is going to be really, really easy for
 everyone to do things.
 But as you can imagine, some people weren't a huge fan of
 that model.
 It feels like glean is the biggest competitor to
 volunteer after I hear this.
 You know about that company?
 I do.
 Yeah, glean is, glean looks amazing from the outside.
 I mean, you know, so many differences there.
 I can typically see why you would stay this, but...
 Clearly a different use case, but it feels like the
 reason they've been successful is they figured out a lot of
 this state ingestion permissions search stuff.
 Totally.
 That way.
 Interesting.
 Okay.
 I want to talk about hiring.
 You talked a bit about this.
 You're starting a company again.
 What are some of the kind of key lessons you've learned from
 your time and panel until when you are hiring people
 for your company.
 I don't know if you're actually hiring people.
 Yeah.
 Maybe when you may start hiring.
 Yeah.
 We have six people at the moment.
 So a really reasonably small team.
 You know, I think with hiring, it's funny.
 There's so much hiring advice on light.
 You eat it.
 You're like, yeah, this is super obvious.
 And then when you live it, you're suddenly like, ah,
 this is why people say this, right?
 So a few simple examples are, I think the thing that
 is really hard to find is somebody who really, really
 has a lot about doing the thing and will go that kind of
 extra 20%.
 Like I think, I think when you hire out of, especially not to
 pick on them, but I think if you hire out a fan, right?
 It's like people, people want like a 400k a year job.
 They would like to work a certain number of hours.
 They would like to ship some code and then go home.
 Like that's basically the model that you get accustomed to,
 even if you don't intend to, when you work at a big company.
 So if you hire out of that for a really small startup, it can
 be really challenging because a lot of your successes as a
 startup depends on each individual person being like,
 no, I'm really going to, I'm going to work this evening.
 That's what it takes to get this thing working.
 And I'm not just going to check my boxes.
 I'm actually going to look towards what is the real
 outcome that this business is trying to achieve.
 And everything I'm saying is feels kind of obvious.
 But when you actually feel that difference between somebody
 is just checking the boxes and somebody who's kind of an
 animal in this way, like they'll actually go and
 pursue and accomplish the end outcome.
 That difference is very, very big and it matters so much for
 your first 20 people, right?
 And there's no science to finding these people.
 It's not like you can just put like somebody who cares about
 outcomes in your JD and then suddenly you'll get all these
 people apply.
 And so then it's like, okay, well, how do you
 squeeze for that?
 And how do you find those types of people?
 And so that's where it gets really interesting.
 I think that's where the mission alignment comes in.
 And so you do have to find people who, for what you're
 doing, have this extra, maybe private reason to care about
 it a little bit more than the average person, right?
 So I think for Palanto, they did hire a lot of vets,
 for example, maybe people who were a little bit more
 patriotic or pro-America than the average tech employee.
 And that those people had an extra reason to join Palanto
 and an extra reason to try that little bit harder.
 And so what I'm doing is a little bit more in the kind of
 medical and health space.
 And so I think people who have themselves had experiences
 with this system, have maybe had relatives go through
 difficult experiences with things like cancer or whatever
 it is.
 They're just that extra bit motivated to really care about
 the thing you're trying to do and then work that little bit
 harder.
 And so I think aggressively filtering early on for things
 like mission fit, how much do you care about stuff in the
 past and what's an example.
 You ask questions like what's the hardest you've ever worked
 to get something done and why, right?
 And that does differentiate a lot of people.
 A lot of people don't actually have a great answer to that.
 So I would say that's been a really big learning.
 It's less about testing for the right skills.
 Yes, that's important too.
 It's much more about just who has that extra 20%.
 That is really interesting.
 As you just said, everything you've shared is essentially
 around motivation and drive and passion and kind of just
 like commitment to working on this intently and almost like
 it's almost like a second thought of just like, oh,
 also they're like really smart and skilled at stuff.
 Like it feels like that's just table stakes.
 And this is actually what makes the difference in your
 experience.
 Yeah, I totally agree.
 I think it's different for every business, right?
 So I think if you're in a space like B2B SaaS where maybe
 it's a little harder to tell the story of like, oh,
 this is so mission critical, like whatever.
 There are other ways of getting at this thing, right?
 So for example, I know a lot of people, again,
 it's a little played out now, but I know a lot of people who
 for sales teams, they will explicitly go for people who
 are professional athletes or played sports in college,
 right?
 And it's like, okay, what does that test for?
 It's like you are very disciplined.
 You're very, very goals and numbers oriented and you're
 willing to just work really, really hard.
 And so there's all these kind of lateral ways of getting at
 these qualities that I think you just have to be kind of
 intentional about as a founder, like as a personal
 example, I'm a runner and so I actually love meeting fellow
 runners and I always like to, I kind of joke like, oh, maybe
 I'll go higher from like run clubs or something like that.
 But it's just like same with, you know, I play a lot of
 chess, like I love, I love meeting chess players.
 I'm not necessarily saying that's the right kind of
 hire for me, but I think having this thing of here are some
 traits that seem uncorrelated, but which actually give you
 good signal to this person's personality, those are actually
 really important.
 The last thing I'll say just as a funny illustration of
 that concept is, I think back selection tells the story of
 somebody interviewing a PayPal early on and he passed all
 the skill interviews.
 And then it just got to the final round and he said something
 about liking to shoot hoops, like he liked to play
 basketball and they were like instant returns.
 And it was just like, the vibe here was just like, if
 you're not like a mega Linux, not a hardcore computer
 person, then we don't want you here even if you actually
 passed all the tests just because you like to shoot hoops.
 Now whether that was the right call or the wrong
 call, I don't know.
 But that's an example of what I'm talking about.
 I think that's a great echo back.
 Like people hearing this may be like, what the hell?
 That's like, how dare they do that.
 But this is exactly what you said at the beginning of our
 conversation that if you're like an approach to building a
 generational business is to be very clear about who this is not
 for.
 And that's okay.
 It's your company.
 Not everyone needs to work there.
 And it's almost saving them time because they may, they
 might realize this isn't for me.
 This isn't the people I want to be around necessarily.
 So I think it's important to see that side of it is like
 it's your business.
 It's important to be clear about who is a good fit for the
 company and who's not speaking that.
 Let's talk about product management for a bit.
 I know Palantier PMs are like not very, not traditional
 product managers.
 What, what is like?
 I imagine people have the title product manager Palantier.
 Okay.
 So if so, what, as far as you understand how, what's the
 difference between say a PM at Palantier versus a traditional
 PM, say it a thing company.
 Palantier was, as far as I remember, quite NTPM for a while.
 And eventually we did need them because we just got more
 serious about.
 Classic story.
 Classic story.
 Classic story.
 Many companies.
 The big difference or one big difference I noticed was that
 they were extremely careful about only making people PMs who
 had first proven themselves out as forward deployed
 engineers.
 You basically could not become a PM any other way.
 So as an example, the, when I mentioned earlier, the thing
 that we built for the plane factory, the person who was
 managing that deployment, she later became the PM for
 technology.
 And it was just because she kind of proven her mental in the
 field.
 And, you know, the reason for that's pretty simple, right?
 It's going to be someone who understand how customers work
 and has that customer empathy.
 And it's going to be someone who has this drive to get things
 done because that's what we decided before.
 I think the failure mode that they were very, very
 averse to in traditional PMs was this kind of Google docs
 syndrome of like, okay, I'm going to write my product
 requirement documents and I'm going to kind of manage it in
 this like very sort of sane rational way, I think.
 So the company was really rigorous about that.
 And so basically PMs were almost always internal
 promotions and they always came from BD.
 It was not like, I'm not aware of a single case where we took
 somebody who was a PM at a place like Google which
 produces many excellent PMs and hides them successfully
 and pounds it just a very different vibe.
 So I think that was one thing.
 You know, this is, this is maybe more of a classic PM
 trait, right?
 But you just had to be either an engineer yourself or
 extremely good at working with engineers.
 And the ones I saw who succeeded the most were just
 best friends with their engineering team, right?
 And the team would always just be like one, you know,
 it was called a group PM and then it would be a lot of
 very, very good engineers.
 And basically the successful failure mode was just like
 do the engineers like and trust you.
 And I mentioned before like how it's very kind of almost
 agreeable personalities and so if you didn't get the
 trust of engineering team pretty fast, you didn't
 last very long.
 I think we've cracked the problem.
 The question of why are Palantier PMs so successful?
 First of all, the hiring bar is just like basically
 hiring for leaders in a lot of different ways to this,
 like, I don't know, forge for founders where they're
 working with a company solving a real problem,
 building a real product that makes money.
 And then those are the people that become the PMs
 that balance here.
 And then they go on to leave and that's why 30% of them
 end up starting companies.
 I'm surprised it's not higher or become first PMs at
 other companies or heads of product.
 Yeah, absolutely.
 I mean, it's, it's crazy.
 I was part of a pretty small team within Palantier.
 I think it was 20 to 25 people and I joined.
 And I think at least six of them now are either
 unicorn or just pre unicorn founders from,
 from that like group of 25 people, which is actually
 a crazy ratio.
 And then a bunch more have become founders recently at an
 earlier stage.
 So, yeah, there's all these little pockets of excellence
 and it's been really interesting to see.
 I think the other thing that's driving that a little bit
 is, you know, when you leave, it's just such an interesting
 company to work at that, you know, I think the retention
 numbers were actually very high for that company.
 Like, people would often stay a lot longer than maybe
 the average average rally tenure.
 And so when you left, it was really this decision of just
 like something very specific is pulling you and you want to
 kind of play the next level of the game.
 And so it was very unusual for someone to leave and
 then join maybe a more traditional tech company.
 It's sort of like you're either going to become a
 founder or why would you leave when there's so many
 interesting different things to work on here.
 And I know that sounds a little culty, but that's just,
 that's what everyone thinks.
 I could totally see that.
 A lot of people that left Airbnb have never found
 something more meaningful.
 Yeah, right.
 It's just hard, especially if you're early.
 There's a stat that I didn't share that I think is really
 interesting.
 And when you look at YC founders and there where
 they've come from, I think you may be shared in this in
 your post that there's more YC X Palantir founders than
 there are X Google founders in spite of Google being
 something like 50 times bigger sample size.
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 Let's talk about the moral question of Palantir.
 A lot of people probably seeing the title of this
 episode hearing this or will not be excited about
 Palantir being highlighted and promoted and a lot of
 people kind of disagree with what Palantir is doing.
 You know, builds products that kill people in some ways.
 They work with governments.
 They don't agree with.
 I know you wrote a really insightful way of how you
 approached this question when you decided to work
 in Palantir and how you see people tackle with this.
 You just talk about the kind of the framework that you
 landed on and how you thought about this yourself.
 Yeah.
 It's a really interesting topic.
 It's definitely very nuanced.
 I think what I was trying to say in that post was a couple
 of things.
 One was that there was a lot of upside there, right?
 So, you know, I worked on the US COVID response.
 I have friends who, you know, worked on operation,
 whooped speed and you know, these are all things that I
 think saved a lot of lives.
 And I was pretty focused while I was working at an age on
 cancer research.
 And so to me, these are just obviously good things and you
 couldn't do them anywhere else.
 And so that was a lot of reasons to say.
 The question I had in that post was, well, okay,
 there are definitely going to be other pieces of this
 that people object to, right?
 So during the kind of 2016 to 2020 era, it became a
 pretty common thing to go into work in New York and you
 have people protesting outside your office or, you know,
 doing all kinds of things.
 And so there was this question of, well, is this okay?
 And I think the point I was trying to make was I don't
 think that it's rather disengagement is the correct answer.
 And I think it's more recognized now, but especially
 then it went a bit too far, right?
 So the famous example here is Google kind of disengaging
 with a Pentagon AI project, just because some people
 felt that working with a Pentagon was itself morally bad.
 I think that's way to sort of the left of what the
 median American would say.
 I think the median American would say it's fine to work
 on defense stuff, you know, within reason and,
 assuming you're doing largely good things.
 And so there was just this kind of almost arbitrage there
 at some point of just, like, hang on, like, it's not
 like working on defense is inherently evil.
 It's actually a pretty interesting thing.
 And then there's this question of, well, would you
 rather be in the room and making this better or not, right?
 And so in struggling with how much I can share here,
 but like as a simple example, if you're doing even a
 workflow which I think many people would not be
 super comfortable with, like, let's say you're
 targeting somebody for some kind of strike.
 If you compare what the way it's done now to maybe the
 way it was done in 2010, it's going to be a lot more
 targeted, it's going to be a lot more accurate.
 And so you've actually improved that process and
 reduced the chance of error.
 Maybe you should feel good about that, right?
 Now, that is a bullet many people are not willing to
 buy.
 I didn't work on the defense side of the
 company myself, but I think you have to be okay with these
 kinds of grade zones and actually actively thinking
 about what you are doing.
 And that doesn't mean that it's always the right thing
 to do to work on a defense company, right?
 Maybe we go into a very dark future, we start being
 the bad guys in some ways, and then it's probably not a
 great idea to work on a defense company, right?
 So it's a shifting landscape.
 But I think I kind of felt pretty strongly that a lot
 of people in tech just didn't want to think about this at
 all, right?
 So, like, you have engineers now who are working on
 optimizing short form videos for higher engagement.
 And you sort of want to say to them, like, hey, are you
 thinking about what this is doing to the brains of
 young children?
 Or have you seen, you know, an 11 year old kind of
 scrolling something for five hours and you think this
 is a good thing?
 And I think people don't want to think about this stuff
 too much.
 I'm not saying I know the answer, but there was almost
 this refusal to look at what tech was doing from a
 political lens for a very long time.
 It was just like, hey, let us play with our toys.
 Let us sit in Menlo Park and, like, don't bother us.
 And we're just going to build cool stuff and watch it.
 And 2025, we're in a very, very different state of the
 world, right?
 You know, tech is involved in politics now.
 And politics basically came to tech, right?
 There's this famous image of Mark Zuckerberg.
 He's sitting in Congress and he kind of looks very pale and
 he's like, why have they dragged me in here again, right?
 But I think, I think tech went through this journey of
 we're suddenly becoming important now.
 Oh, we're really, really important now.
 Oh, we better stop playing this game of politics.
 And so I think what I'm saying now is a lot more
 consensus than it was 10 years ago.
 But at the time, the feeling was just like, look, what
 we are doing is political, so you better engage with that.
 I think when this became really real for a lot of
 people is with the Korean War, like the government's running
 out of certain vehicles and ammunition.
 We're just like not able to produce it.
 And then we're like, Oh, thank God, for coming.
 Like Android and all these other tech companies that
 are actually ahead and keeping us ahead.
 Like, I think the only reason the US is ahead of the, of
 trying in the space race is because SpaceX, just as a
 one company that just has been doing this for a long
 time.
 So I think a lot of people have kind of realized, okay,
 maybe, maybe we need these things.
 Right.
 Yeah, I would make this argument as well as like people
 are like, well, you know, how can you feel good about
 working in defense?
 And it's like, well, you're not going to feel great
 if China invites Taiwan.
 Actually, you're not going to.
 I think you're probably also not going to like that
 outcome.
 So we do just live in this world where you do need to
 build up the turrets to these things.
 And they better be good.
 So to me, it didn't feel that difficult of a question.
 I think when you zoom into particular things, they can
 be very difficult questions.
 And there have been a bunch of those in the last
 couple of years.
 But yeah, again, this engagement isn't the answer.
 Yeah.
 And again, it's not for everyone.
 I think that's an important kind of theme through this.
 Conversation is some companies like to build, sometimes
 to build a generational, really successful company.
 You need to turn some people off because that's what
 brings in the best talent oftentimes.
 Okay.
 Just a few more questions.
 Kind of like stepping back a little bit.
 You're building a company again.
 What are kind of like a few core pieces of advice that
 you're bringing to your new startup that will inform
 how you build this company from your experience of
 Palantir.
 We talked about a lot of stuff.
 Is there anything?
 I don't know if there are like three things that you
 think are like, I'm definitely going to do these things
 this way because it worked really well.
 Palantir.
 One thing is probably just really fast iteration
 cycles.
 So placing a lot of bets and then being really rigorous
 about just going through that cycle very soon.
 So I have this article with both of one of the things on there
 is basically saying like your P successes goes up the
 ball bets you make.
 And it's sort of a function of how many bets you make
 and the probability of successful as individual bets.
 Right.
 And so one easy way to almost guarantee that you'll hit
 something is just to make a lot of bets.
 And then just kind of like cycle through them very quickly.
 Now, obviously this is difficult.
 Often this question of, well, is this bet actually failing
 or like, are we quitting too soon kind of thing?
 But that's kind of one principle I take is just test this
 thing very early.
 You know, like a classic YC thing is just when you take
 something to a customer, ask them to pay you a lot of
 money.
 If they know then find a new problem.
 Like don't wait three weeks, which is what every
 founding team typically does because you don't have
 that kind of time.
 I do think the importance of just like having a really tight
 distinctive internal culture and building a strong feeling of
 trust within a team is really important.
 And kind of like you mentioned with Airbnb and, you know,
 people have people definitely felt this a penalty.
 There was this feeling of like, well, you worked here,
 you must be good.
 I trust you and all of that.
 And I think it's so important to create that.
 And you kind of know that feeling.
 That's what like people ask me, you know, should I go
 work at place?
 Or should I just go be a founder straight away?
 I don't know the answer for everyone, but I will say one
 of the benefits of working at a place like that is you just
 have all these internal benchmarks now.
 Okay.
 This is what this should feel like.
 And if it doesn't feel like that, we're off.
 And I can't imagine not having those benchmarks and just
 kind of having to figure it out.
 So yeah, I think that think too is just like distinctive
 internal strong team culture.
 And then I think maybe think three is just like working
 with a really messy part of the real world.
 So, you know, I kind of joked when I left.
 Like, I'm excited to just do pure software.
 I'm excited to, I don't know.
 I want to build an ID or something and just like not
 have a support email even and all of that.
 But it turned out like, look, my comparative advantage in
 a lot of ways was, you know, the networks I built and the
 experience I'd had in engaging with the messy parts of the
 world and they do need technology a lot, right?
 Like, there is this horrifying thought I have sometimes
 of just like maybe we'll get ATI in the next two years.
 And, you know, the healthcare sector will still be broken
 and it will still be impossible to afford rent in New York
 City and build houses and all these things.
 And that may well become true.
 And so I think it's important to engage with those
 parts of the world too, even though they're really,
 really challenging.
 And I think the really nice thing about LLM is that actually,
 there's so many workflows now that are accessible to you,
 the tech founder, and people are somehow more open to working
 with tech companies than they ever were before.
 Like, selling into this sector of the economy in 2015,
 incredibly hard, I think now post the chat GPT moment,
 people are willing to give chances to small startups that
 they weren't willing to do previously.
 As you mentioned earlier, the cost of doing things like
 forward deployed engineering is fallen by maybe 5 to 10 X now,
 at least.
 And so there's a lot of new possibilities.
 And I'm excited to engage with the best.
 Wow, that is some alpha right there that you're finding that
 some of these very large organizations are more open to
 working with startups because, you know, classically
 investors don't want to invest in companies that are going
 after healthcare companies and governments and things like
 that.
 So it is really interesting actually to hear.
 I'm going to, you're back the tips you just shared.
 And there's actually like a secondary tip that I think is the
 more interesting piece.
 So the first thing you're taking away is iterate quickly,
 but I love your tip of ask for lots of money quickly early to
 see if it's an actual idea that people will pay lots of
 money for.
 And if not, move on.
 I love that.
 The other is build a very distinct culture.
 But the piece you share there that I love even more is this
 idea of knowing what a high bar looks like, knowing what
 awesome A plus people look like.
 And you need to work at a company like Palantir to
 actually see that.
 So the advice there I feel is they just like work at a
 company that is amazing first with the best talent to
 understand what that should look like.
 Plus you build a network of those folks.
 So I think that's really interesting.
 And then the other pieces of advice you're pulling
 away is work on like really hard messy problems because
 that's where the biggest opportunities are.
 And it's sounding like this is the easiest time to actually
 do that.
 Amazing.
 Okay.
 I'm going to take us to a recurring theme on the
 podcast called AI Corner.
 And what we do in AI corners is we share some way that you
 and this is you sharing some way that you've found AI to be
 useful in your day day to day to day either in life or in
 work.
 Is there any way you found some tool in a some AI tool
 useful that you can share?
 Oh, my gosh.
 There are so many.
 I'll give you a few examples.
 So I use WISPA flow quite a bit.
 This is the talk to your keyboard and it will
 transcribe for you app.
 Very good.
 It's just great when you're iterating very quickly with an
 LLM and you sometimes you have to do these paragraph long
 prompts and it's just easier to speak into them.
 Right.
 So WISPA flow, I like.
 Just if the double down in that there's like is like you
 press a button and you start talking and it's writing
 out what you're saying.
 All right.
 Cool.
 And like there have been these products for a long time
 and you can dictate on all these guys.
 Is the difference now?
 These are just like very, very good now at actually
 transcribing what you're saying.
 I think that's right.
 Yeah.
 You know, these, these are really good model and so it
 rarely makes mistakes even when I think it's quite
 challenging.
 And then yeah, the UX I think they just nailed.
 So that's a really good one.
 I love Claude code for developing even though I have
 my complaints about it.
 There's something just very addictive about just telling
 it what to do.
 And it can, it's basically something that you run within
 the terminal of your computer.
 And so you just type Claude.
 It opens up Claude interface.
 It's very cute.
 It's very beautifully designed.
 And you just tell it what to do.
 It actually operates on the file system directly.
 So if you're like, hey, create a bunch of these files,
 that'll just do it.
 And you don't need to go and mock around inside
 finding yourself.
 And then it'll do these really complicated pull request.
 And it'll basically execute them quite well.
 So to me, this is like a very exciting kind of previewed
 AI agents.
 That's what I was going to ask.
 So this is essentially like an AI agent engineer.
 I didn't know that's what Claude code did.
 Very cool.
 It's sort of a guided agent.
 But yes, it is really sweet.
 And then yeah, I'm just enjoying, you know, every week
 there's like a new wonderful view thing to play with.
 Last seven days, I've been testing Gemini Pro 2.5.
 Excellent models.
 I don't love Google's UX sometimes.
 But I was playing with that.
 And I use LLM's every day for all kinds of things.
 The other day I was doing taxes.
 And I needed to classify a bunch of transactions based on some
 metadata.
 And so I just wrote a script up really quickly.
 And it did that.
 So I love just like the smile on your faces.
 You're describing all these AI tools.
 I think a lot of people are just like, holy shit.
 I'm just overwhelmed with all the things I need to be paying
 attention to all these things in here.
 All these tools I got to try.
 And I love just this vibe of just like this is incredible.
 I'm so fun.
 We need more of that.
 Okay.
 I'm going to take us to another recurring segment
 down the podcast.
 You're going to get a double Emmy contrarian corner.
 So here's the question.
 What's something that you believe that most other people
 don't?
 I think going to college is great.
 I think this is somewhat contrarian view with a tag.
 Maybe not in the broader economy.
 But you know, I often see people saying just like, oh, if you
 can just drop out when you're 18 and just start working, why
 would you go to college?
 And I think this is completely wrong.
 But maybe it's good advice for 5% of the population who
 probably would have been Teal Fellows anyway.
 But college is one of the few times when you can just make
 really, really deep friendships you are in, you know, typically
 a nice campus.
 If you're in North America, you get to spend all of your time
 just thinking and writing papers and reading books and
 hanging out with your friends.
 And it's actually very precious.
 And it's very hard to find that kind of time after you turn
 21 because, you know, you've got to pay your rent.
 You've got to do all this stuff.
 Even, you know, let's say you make a bunch of money.
 You take a career break.
 It's still like all your friends are working.
 And you always feel like there's a taking time on top of
 your head or something.
 And so just taking those three or four years at the very
 beginning and going really deep on lots of different
 intellectual topics and being able to try different things
 and discover more about yourself.
 I'm a big college fan.
 I can't comment on the ROI or whatever.
 I personally think the ROI is great, even though the
 ROI is kind of high in the US, but that's probably my kind
 of contrarian within tech view is don't drop out of college
 unless you have a really good reason.
 It's so funny that that is contrarian and it does sound
 contrarian.
 I had a great time in college.
 You're here.
 Okay.
 Is there anything else in the bill that you wanted to share or
 leave listeners with before we get to our very exciting
 lightning round?
 No, I think it's just, it's, it's a really exciting time
 in the world, right?
 You know, I think AI can be exhausting, but it does
 really just open up the possibility of building
 about a world in all these ways.
 And so I think just reassess what you're doing every couple
 of months and make sure that it's aligned with where I think
 AI is going and make sure that you are working on something
 that you feel has very high potential if it succeeds.
 And I think that's more of one than ever now, just because
 the amount of leverage we have with technology is at the
 highest point in history.
 Let me double click on that real quick.
 So for people that want to do what you're describing, what
 helps you understand where AI is heading and just kind of
 like align with it?
 Are there like places of information and news you find
 useful?
 Is it just play with it kind of thing?
 What would you recommend?
 This is the big question.
 I use X a lot to keep on top of AI.
 So I just recommend finding a good Twitter list and maybe
 following people off of that.
 There's some good news that is really like latent space.
 I know who's X handle it.
 I can't remember his actual name.
 But that one is very good and it's pretty technical.
 I would recommend trying to stick to the more technical
 news that is possible.
 I think there's a lot of kind of philosophy about AI or
 like AI policy type stuff.
 And I think that's good if that's your area.
 But it's an area where it's very easy to have a lot of
 takes on it.
 It's not necessarily learning a lot by reading those.
 But I think it's important to know what's going on and make
 sure you are revisiting your own workflows as often as
 possible and just making sure that like the people who
 went here are going to be the kind of hybrid cyborgs who
 fused with the AI is right.
 This actually played out in chess if I can take a slight
 detour is the chess players who succeeded the most in the
 mid 2010s especially were the ones who were really early
 adopters of a neural network based chess engines.
 So when DeepMind did that thing there was very quickly an
 open source version of it called Leela.
 And you find basically like the very top players like
 Magnus Carlsson Fabiano they were the ones who kind of
 minded melded the most with Leela and learned how it
 played and then kind of started copying it.
 So I think this like becoming a cyborg to the extent that
 you can.
 And then I think there's this barbell thing of like it's
 also important to just leave everything at go touch
 grass just for your own mental.
 Mental sanity.
 Excellent advice.
 And with that Nabeel we've reached our very exciting
 lightning round.
 Are you ready?
 Yes.
 Here we go.
 What are two or three books that you find yourself
 recommending most to other people?
 The first one that comes to mind is Emperor by
 Keith Johnston.
 This is actually I wrote about it in that essay.
 It's one of the books that power tastes to send to
 people.
 I just think it's a really interesting book.
 So normally speaking it's about improvisational theater
 which I believe this guy was a pioneer of.
 He was a British guy.
 Keith Johnston active between the '60s and the '80s I think.
 And Emperor is just this really interesting book about
 creativity and how social behavior works and basically
 just what he taught his improv students.
 It's a very weird book.
 It's full of these unbelievably strange ideas.
 There's a lot of very tactical things he tells you to do
 in the first chapter for example.
 Just to break out of your own mental frameworks.
 Like really just wild stuff.
 Like he'll tell you to walk backwards while counting
 down from 100 and think about some problem that you're
 struggling with.
 There's all these kind of odd things but the number of
 ideas per page I've found on that book is extremely
 high.
 The concepts about how social interaction works and
 how things like status and so on play into your social
 behavior are super important and they made every kind of
 fully deployed engineer read that.
 For the simple reason that I think it just helps you kind of
 read people better and interact with them better and
 become more conscious of how you are coming across it.
 Just modulate that.
 What is the title again?
 Impro.
 Impro.
 Okay cool.
 We'll link to it in the show notes.
 Yeah so.
 Impro is number one.
 I think just to go a little bit.
 Maybe Shakespeare's history plays.
 There's a set of them called the Henry ad.
 I find most people don't read these.
 They'll read Hamlet or Macbeth or whatever.
 The Henryon is absolutely incredible.
 You don't have to be interested in British Monarchy or
 British history in order to enjoy them.
 There are actually some of the most interesting and
 insightful books I've read about power and how power works
 and politics and kind of what the sacrifices that you might
 have to make if you want to be a successful king in that case
 but it transfers over.
 I think it's worth thinking really hard about.
 I think especially in a world where everything is kind of
 organized around these prominent figures and
 personalities now.
 When you think about the current administration, you think
 Trump, Elon, when you think about AI, you think of Sam,
 Dario.
 I think it's important to understand how do you think
 about these personalities and the kind of game that they're
 playing?
 Henry is an incredible set of books around that.
 They're also easy to read.
 It sounds hilarious when I say it.
 You can read a Shakespeare play in a day.
 I don't know.
 50 pages long.
 It's not that bad.
 You have to get used to the language.
 Yes.
 I would recommend that for sure.
 I guess you asked for two to three.
 I love high output management by Andy Groove.
 I just think that's a great business book and people sort of
 tend to read summaries of it on the Internet more than they
 actually read the book.
 But the actual book has a lot of really interesting stories
 and explanations about, like I think the most powerful thing
 about that book is actually how Andy Groove thinks unless any
 of the specific tactics that I think you don't get that unless
 you read like how he came up with all these things.
 Your first two books were extremely out there versus what
 other people have recommended.
 And the third book was the most recommended book on this
 podcast.
 So I love that spectrum that we just went on.
 Perfect.
 Okay.
 Next question.
 Do you have a favorite recent movie or TV show that you've
 just really enjoyed?
 The last movie I really loved was "Decision to Leave."
 It's a Korean movie.
 It's by the director of "Old Boy," which maybe some people
 have heard of.
 It's a great movie.
 I think it was released a couple of years ago.
 And the basic premise is there's a detective who is
 investigating a woman who's accused of killing her husband
 and he gradually starts falling for her.
 It starts to affect his judgment totally its ways.
 Just like a really fascinating, kind of psychological
 thriller with a sort of romantic element to it.
 Visually very beautiful.
 Yeah.
 I think a lot of the most interesting movies nowadays come
 from abroad, actually.
 So East Asia, South Asia, places like that.
 TV, I don't watch so much yet.
 It's been a while.
 Totally understandable for a founder.
 OK.
 Next question.
 Do you have a favorite product that you've recently
 discovered that you just really love?
 It could be an app.
 It could be some physical.
 It could be a water bottle.
 I don't have a good answer to that one.
 I guess it'd buy enough stuff.
 It's totally acceptable.
 There's no wrong answers in the lightning round.
 Moving on.
 Do you have a favorite life motto that you often
 find useful in work and life that you share with your,
 that you come back to, that you share with friends
 or family?
 So, so this is our technical Christopher Alexander
 who wrote these beautiful books that are about, you know,
 beauty and kind of more than architecture.
 Right.
 And he, he was a teacher at UC Berkeley and he got really
 frustrated with the students because he just felt like
 they were always turning in kind of like average work.
 And so he would always tell them every week, like, imagine
 the, there's a gothic cathedral in France called
 chart and, and he would say you have to aim for
 chart, like you have to make something that is better
 than that.
 That should be your goal.
 Not just to like turn in something that's, that's sort of,
 you know, what you feel is good enough.
 You actually have to try and be better than the very,
 very best that I've ever did it.
 And I find myself just like repeating this a lot to
 myself.
 It's just like aim for, aim for that.
 Like really try and do that.
 Otherwise it's very easy to anchor on something right in
 the middle.
 And you just, you do this unconsciously all the time.
 So is that the, is that the motto?
 Just aim for charge?
 Yeah.
 Yeah.
 I love that most people have no idea what that would
 mean.
 Yeah.
 But with the context is quite powerful.
 Final question.
 What's a classic novel that would you think would be
 most valuable for product builders?
 I just, my favorite novel is Anna Karenina, and I
 recommend that everyone read Erica.
 I'm reading that right now.
 I've never read it before.
 No way.
 Yeah.
 So it's by Leo Tolstoy is, you know, it's this epic, like
 19th century Russian novel that follows a set of
 characters across society.
 And I think it's just extraordinary because what's,
 what's amazing about him is he's just able to imagine
 himself into the brain of anybody.
 And so even like, he will briefly just go into the
 consciousness of, I don't know, the, the servant who's
 bringing the meal to the table or something like that.
 And he'll just tell you a page of what they were thinking.
 And then he'll just flip back into his main character's
 head.
 And I think that is the most impressive demonstration
 of this kind of skill I've ever seen.
 And I think like to connect it to your question, this is
 what you have to do.
 If you're going to be really good at products, you have to
 really think yourself into the other person's head and you
 have to be really seeing it the way that they do.
 And it's so hard, especially as a founder or product
 person, not to just get stuck on your own way of seeing
 the problem, right?
 It's like, you wrote up this dog.
 You made these marks.
 You're like, this is going to be great.
 And then you take it to somebody they don't care that much.
 You really have to like exercise your empathy and
 why they see it that way and what they actually care about.
 What a beautiful way to bring it all together.
 Let me also add while I'm reading the book, something a tip
 here is people talk about having chat, GPT voice mode,
 just kind of sitting there next to you.
 I found that extremely helpful with this book where I just
 ask, like, what the hell does this thing mean?
 Like, there's all these Russian dances and balls in
 etiquette.
 And you just ask and you're like, I'm reading Anacronina.
 What does this mean?
 And it just tells you.
 Yeah.
 So there's another cool tip for AI.
 Okay.
 With that.
 Two final questions, in case people want to look you up.
 Where can they find you online?
 And how can listeners be useful to you?
 Find me online.
 My website is nebeocu.co.
 And my X handle is nebeocu.
 I'm probably most active on that.
 But yeah, my website has all the links.
 You know, a bunch of essays and interesting stuff.
 How can you help me?
 I would say send me an email.
 My email is on my website.
 Introduce yourself.
 Say hi.
 I love meeting people.
 I don't always have time for coffees nowadays or things like that.
 But I genuinely do get a lot of energy from just receiving emails from interesting people.
 So please do reach out.
 Awesome.
 Definitely check out Nabil's principles.
 Is that the term?
 Is that the name of that post?
 Yeah.
 Great.
 Okay.
 That's one to start with.
 And then also there's the Palantier post that we just talked through.
 Okay.
 Nabil, thank you so much for being here.
 Thank you.
 Appreciate it, Lenny.
 Hi, everyone.
 Thank you so much for listening.
 If you found this valuable, you can subscribe to the show on Apple Podcast, Spotify or your
 favorite podcast app.
 Also, please consider giving us a rating or leaving a review as that really helps other
 listeners find the podcast.
 You can find all past episodes or learn more about the show at lenny'spodcast.com.
 See you in the next episode.
 episode.
 (music fades)
 [BLANK_AUDIO]
