--- METADATA START ---
Show: N/A
Episode: How AI Will Force Education to… - The AI Daily Brief (Formerly The AI Breakdown): Artificial Intelligence News and Analysis
Host: Unknown
GUESTS: None
Guests: None
Source URL: https://podcasts.apple.com/us/podcast/how-ai-will-force-education-to-finally-change/id1680633614?i=1000707991518
--- METADATA END ---

 Today, we are talking about how AI could force education to change in ways that it should
 have a long, long time ago.
 The AI Daily Brief is a daily podcast and video about the most important news and discussions
 in AI.
 Thanks to today's sponsors, Blitzy and Vertisse Labs, and to get an ad-free version of the
 show, go to patreon.com/ai-dailybrief.
 Alright friends, welcome back to a long reads episode of The AI Daily Brief.
 Although this one is going to be a little bit different, there were a couple of different
 sort of viral articles that all related to this topic of AI and education, and I ended
 up deciding that instead of doing a full article read through, we're going to read a couple
 of excerpts and basically have a broader, sort of more general discussion.
 Now I would like to establish some bonafides for this discussion since I am about to present
 some heretical opinions when it comes to college and AI and education.
 And basically what I'd like to say is that I am not some renegade entrepreneur who
 dropped out to go pursue a totally alternative path.
 I went to Northwestern, graduated near the top of my class, was a finalist for the Rhodes
 Scholarship, and stuck around for three years building more programs at Northwestern, some
 of which have actually survived to this day.
 Point being, I love college.
 I think the undergraduate experience was incredible from a human developmental perspective,
 from an intellectual interest perspective, and yet I also believe with every fiber
 of my being that there is basically no correlation between high achievement in school and high
 achievement in the real world.
 Or at least there is far less correlation than the economic underpinnings of our college
 and educational system would want you to believe.
 So that's my background.
 That's the perspective that I'm bringing into this conversation.
 This week, a piece in the New York Intelligencer went wildly viral.
 It was called everyone is cheating their way through college.
 That GBT has unraveled the entire academic project.
 Now unsurprisingly, part of the setup for this is the story we talked about a couple
 of weeks ago, which is the cheat on everything startup, clearly, which was founded by a
 college dropout, or rather someone who is kicked out of college for cheating.
 The company's thesis is that what we call cheating today is just a pattern of the future
 that you might as well go get out ahead of.
 I'm not going to rehash all the arguments from that.
 You can go back and listen to the episode is the future of AI cheating on everything,
 but I do want to grab a couple of the highlight quotes that have gone particularly viral
 from this piece.
 One was, "I asked Wendy if I could read the paper she turned in.
 And when I opened the document, I was surprised to see the topic."
 Critical Pedagogy, the philosophy of education pioneered by Paulo Freire.
 The philosophy examines the influence of social and political forces on learning
 and classroom dynamics.
 Her opening line, "To what extent is schooling hindering students' cognitive ability to
 think critically?"
 Later, I asked Wendy if she recognized the irony in using AI to write not just a paper
 on critical pedagogy, but one that argues learning is what makes us truly human.
 She wasn't sure what to make of the question.
 I use AI a lot, like every day she said, and I do believe it could take away that
 critical thinking part, but it's just, now that we rely on it, we really can't
 imagine living without it.
 Another viral quote was the section about Roy Lee, the clearly founder, who provoked
 so much of this conversation a couple of weeks ago.
 The piece reads, "Lee was born in South Korea and grew up outside Atlanta, where
 his parents run a college prep consulting business.
 He said he was admitted to Harvard early in his senior year of high school, but the
 university rescinded its offer after he was suspended for sneaking out during an overnight
 field trip before graduation.
 A year later, he applied to 26 schools.
 He didn't get into any of them, so he spent the next year at a community college
 before transferring to Columbia.
 His personal essay, which turned his winding road to higher education into a parable,
 for his ambition to build companies, was written with help from Chad GPT.
 When he started at Columbia as a sophomore this past September, he didn't worry much
 about academics or his GPA.
 Most assignments in college are not relevant, he told me.
 They're hackable by AI, and I just had no interest in doing them.
 While other new students fredded over the university's rigorous core curriculum,
 described by the school as "intellectually expansive and personally transformative,"
 Lee used AI to breeze through with minimal effort.
 When I asked him why he had gone through so much trouble to get into an Ivy League
 University only to offload all the learning to a robot, he said, "It's the best place
 to meet your co-founder and your wife."
 Now, this is not some rabid peace, being gloriously defending the higher education
 system and pretending that AI is all bad.
 A lot of it just recognizes that we're in the midst of a change that we won't
 fully understand the implications of for some time.
 The author writes, "It'll be years before we can fully account for what all of this
 is doing to students' brains."
 From early research shows that when students offload cognitive duties onto chat bots,
 their capacity for memory, problem solving, and creativity could suffer.
 Multiple studies published within the past year have linked AI usage with a deterioration
 and critical thinking skills.
 One found the effect to be more pronounced than younger participants.
 And even as someone who is fully invested, as you guys well know, in AI and optimistic
 about the future, I think it's totally reasonable to have these questions.
 They're concerns that I share.
 I think about them in the context of my kids.
 But I don't think, though, is that the challenge that AI represents to education
 and the potential diminishment of the current system we have is necessarily a fully bad
 thing.
 Let's hold aside the set of opinions that view this as just awful.
 If you go search for "college AI" on X, you're going to find plenty of people
 who will tell you that this is bleak or, in this case, just unrelentingly bleak.
 But I want to share some different takes.
 Investor Nick Carter writes, "I fully support the rampant use of AI among college
 students.
 Great inflation meant most college grads were already functionally illiterate.
 AI is just the catalyst to expose it.
 The credential was already worthless.
 Now it's just undeniable."
 He continues, "Around 63% of high school grads enroll in college.
 The numbers should be 15-20%.
 The subset of people who actually have the desire and will to learn for themselves,
 even in the age of AI.
 Most grads are just there to check the box."
 Similarly, Abby for the people, who I would venture to say is probably on the opposite
 end of the political spectrum as Nick, writes, "Please don't act surprised that kids are
 using AI in college.
 Most are only there to get a degree in the hopes that they won't be forced to work
 for minimum wage for their entire life.
 Capitalism has turned higher education into a means to an end."
 Ariel Azarad writes, "The real issue with university has always been that most people
 should not be studying at a university.
 University used to be for those committed to rigorous academic study.
 Now for many, it's simply a place you must attend on a perfunctory level for an entry-level
 job.
 Chatty BT has exposed for whom university is the former and for whom it is the latter.
 And again, I'm not reading all of the political subtexts, but we are talking about wildly
 divergent political backgrounds that these people all saying roughly the same thing
 are coming from."
 I thought this take by the Babylon bees Dan Dillon was really funny.
 People are mad that kids are cheating their way through college with AI.
 Meanwhile, their future job will mostly consist of writing AI prompts, so it actually
 seems like decent job experience.
 Today's episode is brought to you by Blitzy, the enterprise autonomous software development
 platform with infinite code context, which, if you don't know exactly what that means
 yet, do not worry we're going to explain and it's awesome.
 So Blitzy is used alongside your favorite code and co-pilot as your batch software
 development platform for the enterprise, and it's meant for those who are seeking
 dramatic development acceleration on large-scale code bases.
 Traditional co-pilots help developers with line-by-line completions and snippets,
 but Blitzy works ahead of the IDE.
 First documenting your entire code base, then deploying more than 3,000 coordinated
 AI agents working in parallel to batch build millions of lines of high quality code for
 large-scale software projects.
 So then whether it's code-based refactors, modernizations, or bulk development of your
 product roadmap, the whole idea of Blitzy is to provide enterprise's dramatic velocity
 improvement.
 To put it in simpler terms, for every line of code eventually provided to the human
 engineering team, Blitzy will have written it hundreds of times, validating the output
 with different agents to get the highest quality code to the enterprise in batch.
 Projects then that would normally require dozens of developers working for months
 can now be completed with a fraction of the team in weeks, empowering organizations
 to dramatically shorten development cycles and bring products to market faster than
 ever.
 If your enterprise is looking to accelerate software development, whether it's large
 scale modernization, refactoring or just increasing the rate of your STLC, contact
 Blitzy at Blitzy.com that's BLITZY.com to book a custom demo or just press get started
 and start using the product right away.
 Now for Virtisse, AI Native means that they don't just build AI, they use it in every
 step of their process.
 They embed agents in their workflows so that they better know how to help you embed
 agents in your workflows.
 And indeed what they specialize in is building AI agents and agent workflows that augment
 knowledge work, from customer support to internal ops so that your team can focus
 on higher value work.
 Virtisse wants to ensure that this is not just another co-pilot, but something that
 works end to end, translating business problems into working software in weeks, not quarters.
 They have found that their clients typically see a 60% reduction in time and cost, with
 significantly higher output than traditional technology partners.
 So if you are a founder, a CTO, a business leader, or you've just got a product idea
 to launch, check out for tslabs.io, that's V-E-R-T-I-C-E Labs.io.
 And then there's the set of takes that start to turn on the idea that maybe this reflects
 something that needs to change on a more fundamental level.
 The New York Times Kevin Rus writes, "I'm sympathetic to the professors quoted in this,
 but at a certain point, if your students can cheat their way through your class with
 AI, you probably need to redesign your class."
 Investor John Arnold writes, "There is a massive disconnect between how AI is
 rapidly transforming the nature of learning, knowledge, and intelligence, and the glacial
 pace of change at universities."
 And the reality is something has to give.
 And on San Wall writes, "AI is eating entry-level jobs.
 For the first time in nearly four decades, recent college grads are doing worse in the
 job market than the general population.
 Not the same, worse.
 That bottom-wrong of white-collar work, the reports, the research summaries, the
 power points, the reality is that AI does that all now, faster, cheaper, 24/7.
 And AI is only getting better, faster, and cheaper.
 Meanwhile, fewer entry-level hires, diminishing college ROI, grads drowning in debt and
 uncertainty.
 We told students, "Get into a good school and everything else will work out."
 Kind of looks like that promise is busted.
 This chart isn't just a red flag, it's a siren.
 Now, this comes from a piece by Derek Thompson, who by the way graduated Northwestern right
 around the same time as I did, called something alarming is happening to the job market.
 A new sign that AI is competing with college grads.
 And this, while a little beyond the scope of today's episode, is one of those short
 and medium-term challenges that I do think we absolutely need to be thinking about
 when it comes to AI.
 As I've mentioned before, my base case is that things look really good for the world
 once we've really adapted to the new paradigm that AI represents, but that the dislocations
 in the short-term could be tremendous.
 We're not going to be able to just tell people who have been in their jobs for four
 decades that they need to upskill and it will be fine.
 And we're going to see certain types of dislocations that are profound and that
 we have to deal with the consequences of.
 One of those is the fact that there's basically no place for new employees to go to get mentored
 and learn from an older generation because AI is just sucking up so much of the work
 that they would have previously done.
 Frankly, I haven't seen a lot of good solutions to that problem, but it is the type of
 problem that we're going to have to address.
 But I think addressing real problems is exactly the point.
 The call to action here is not to ban AI from colleges.
 It's to design education for a new world in which AI exists.
 Professor Ethan Malick wrote, "I warned about the homework apocalypse in 2023.
 It happened as I predicted.
 There is a world where AI and traditional education get along very well.
 Mixes of active in-class learning, AI-assisted assignments and tutors, bluebooks, etc.
 But it needs to be built.
 And that's the point it needs to be built.
 The more time we spend fighting the tide and the less time we spend redesigning education
 fundamentally from the ground up for this new, and finally, un-ignorable reality, the
 worse off we're going to be.
 And what's great is that there is a ton of energy around that potential redesign.
 Another piece that I like this week on these themes was by Sid Dobren on GovTech.com,
 and was called "Is this our Sputnik moment for AI and K-12?"
 The US needs a national plan to compete with China for dominance in the next generation
 of world-changing technology, and the education sector needs different degrees of oversight
 and objectives than commercial AI.
 He pointed to President Trump's recent executive order, arguing that advancing artificial
 intelligence education for American youth will be pivotal for maintaining our global
 competitiveness, but it's really all about the how.
 He points to the fact that China has for years emphasized the importance of AI education
 to create a future talent pool, and that the US has to catch up.
 Now, this, of course, is focused on education around AI itself, but the broader point
 about a redesign and recommitment to education I think stands as well.
 One group that's offering some perspective on that is the CS4All initiative, who recently
 released an open letter that starts what if a single class could help close wage
 gaps, unlock 660 billion in economic potential every year for everyday Americans, and
 address the skills gap we currently face.
 It goes on, "This is possible today if we include computer science and AI as a core
 part of every student's education.
 Just one high school computer science course boosts wages by 8% for all students, regardless
 of career path or whether they attend college.
 Yet most students never even try computer science because it's not a graduation requirement.
 Only 12 states require students to even learn about basic computer science.
 In the age of AI they write, we must prepare our children for the future, to be AI creators
 not just consumers.
 And they went live with a letter signed by 250 or more CEOs, including those from
 Microsoft, Adobe, American Airlines, AMD, Etsy, Airbnb, LinkedIn, Khan Academy, DoorDash,
 Sweet Green.
 I mean, you name it.
 Now, I do not believe that we have a single clear silver bullet, like mandating CS education
 as a part of normal curriculums.
 But I also think that we should not avoid the easy wins that we have right in front
 of us, for sake of longer term, bigger structural changes we need to make.
 In other words, is ensuring that every high school student in America has a CS class
 as part of their graduation requirements, going to solve all the problems, absolutely
 and obviously not.
 But is it net better than not having them have that requirement?
 Absolutely.
 Yes.
 So let's do it.
 And then let's do more.
 And then let's do some more after that.
 College has for too long underserved its participants in America.
 And college has for too long had completely warped economics that simply do not work
 for the world as it is anymore.
 It seems to me that it is this economic pressure that is most likely to ultimately lead to
 change, but we need to start having alternatives.
 Now, of course, the challenges we're designing against the moving target.
 It would be a mistake to redesign the system based on today's AI capabilities, which
 are going to do nothing but improve.
 If you need an example of this, just look out around the availability of AI upskilling
 courses and tools.
 They're all about skill sets that were sure useful six months ago, but say nothing
 about the future in which, for example, we're managing swarms of agents, which
 is a capability that is now come online.
 Point being that it is going to be immensely hard to redesign the system, but we simply
 don't have a choice.
 We have to try and we have to do it now.
 Anyways, guys, that is going to do it for today's AI daily brief.
 Appreciate you listening or watching as always, and until next time, peace.
 [MUSIC]
 (gentle music)
 (gentle music)
