--- METADATA START ---
Show: In Depth
Episode: How Wes Kao coaches founders t…
Host: Brett Berson
GUESTS: Wes Kao 
Guests: Wes Kao
Source URL: https://podcasts.apple.com/us/podcast/how-wes-kao-coaches-founders-to-influence-lead-and/id1535886300?i=1000709415142
--- METADATA END ---

1
Founder CEOs are idiosyncratic creatures.
2
They are who they are, and you're not going to get very far, in my experience, trying to change who they are or trying to force them into entering your world.
3
For today's episode, I'm excited to be joined by Wes Kayo.
4
She's the former co-founder of Maven, a platform for live cohort-based courses.
5
And before that, she co-founded the Alt MBA with marketing legend Seth Godin.
6
I thought I knew what shipping quickly looked like, but when I started looking at Seth, I realized that it was child's play.
7
She now coaches founders and executives on how to sharpen their communication and influence.
8
If you are not clear in your own mind about what you are trying to say, of course, when you say it out loud, it's going to be confusing.
9
Wes is a master communicator.
10
So in today's conversation, I was excited to dig into her frameworks for communicating and operating more effectively.
11
The biggest bottleneck to clear communication, to being concise, is lack of preparation.
12
Including what to do when you get the feedback that you need to be more strategic.
13
I think on the manager side, getting more specific about what does that actually look like for you in your role in this context, what does not strategic look like or less strategic?
14
And then what would more strategic look like?
15
Let's dive in.
16
Thanks again for joining us, Wes.
17
Yeah, really excited to be here, Brett.
18
I wondered, have you spent time thinking about charisma in the context of communicating and company building?
19
It feels like one of those things that's not like fully explored.
20
And I was curious if you've thought much about it, particularly because I think you're quite charismatic.
21
I don't know if you identify that way.
22
I feel like being charismatic is one of those things that other people can call you.
23
But if you call yourself charismatic, you seem like a little bit of a jerk.
24
Thank you.
25
Being a visionary or something like that.
26
Exactly.
27
Exactly.
28
Yes.
29
If you say it about yourself.
30
I haven't spent too much time thinking about charisma as a topic, but.
31
You know, you see founders of all types, styles, idiosyncrasies being successful.
32
And so I think the main thought with charisma and leaning into being more charismatic is thinking more about what makes you you instead of trying to copy someone else and having those tactics fall flat or having it feel inauthentic, lean more into your own idiosyncrasies.
33
One of my life mottos, especially in recent years, is a little bit silly, but I'm going to share it with you.
34
It's be the meest me.
35
And I saw this, I think like on a Facebook post a couple years ago, someone had posted that their toddler said they wanted to be the meest me.
36
And I saw that and I was like, I love this.
37
Yes.
38
Like, you know, we all have read adages like, know thyself, you know, be yourself, et cetera.
39
But there's something about be the meest me that just feels so pure, so raw.
40
So, you know, I am me.
41
Like, how can I lean more into the things that make me me?
42
And you can kind of unpack it in so many different directions.
43
But I think that charisma kind of comes down to leaning into being more of yourself.
44
So, how does that manifest itself for you?
45
What have you figured out about yourself?
46
And then how does it translate into all the things that you do and the way in which you behave?
47
That is a big question.
48
I mean, I'm going to scratch the surface of it here, probably.
49
I think in the past, I thought that leaders had to look and act a certain way, namely, you know, much more serious, much more formal.
50
And I think I'm a pretty professional person, but I don't think I'm the most formal person.
51
And one thing I really liked about MAVEN and my co-founders at MAVEN were that we weren't overly obsessed with an air of formality or, you know, being more, more serious for the sake of it, being more corporate for the sake of it, or acting like a bigger company than we really were.
52
And I really like that.
53
I think it allowed us to be more of ourselves and care about the quality of the ideas that we were sharing.
54
And a big part of our ethos in the company was everyone should speak up and we should be able to back up our ideas no matter who we are.
55
So if you're a co-founder, you need to back up your ideas too.
56
If you're the most junior person, you need to back up your ideas.
57
And yeah, I think that that ethos was really pervasive.
58
And in the past, I would have thought, you know, well, you know, we need to be serious.
59
I need to be more buttoned up.
60
And when I kind of relaxed that rule, realized it wasn't actually a rule that you can inspire people, you can be a leader that people want to follow without necessarily being super formal.
61
I mean, that's one example.
62
And so when you kind of think about this topic of authenticity, why do you think that it is so important?
63
Like, what is it about being authentic?
64
I mean, people talk about that all the time, you know, be authentic.
65
Yeah, I think that I'm not a huge fan of the word authentic.
66
I think that it gets thrown around a lot.
67
And I think that we are sometimes different versions of ourselves in different settings, in different contexts, with different people.
68
And so this idea of, you know, you are being authentic or you're not, or there's like one true way to be authentic or one true way that you are, I don't know if I believe that.
69
I think that it can be very helpful as a founder to know what makes you spiky and know your idiosyncrasies and have a concept.
70
And it's this idea that you know, sometimes you'll see a coworker say something and just think, wow, I could never get away with saying that.
71
You know, I used to think that about my co-founder.
72
He would say certain things and people would love it.
73
And I would just know that if I said something similar, it wouldn't land in the same way.
74
And vice versa.
75
So there are things that I could say that if he said would feel off or cringe or whatever.
76
And so I think a lot about this concept of personality message fit as a way for us as founders to understand our baseline.
77
What is our baseline style?
78
Where do our heads naturally go?
79
What's our natural reaction to things?
80
I think it's so important to know your baseline.
81
And then if you want to adjust it in, you know, to move a little bit to the right, to move a little bit to the left on whatever spectrum you want to be on, you can do that.
82
But knowing your baseline, I think, is so important.
83
And I'll give you an example.
84
Some people are very low emoting.
85
So I have a client who, if he's happy, you can barely tell.
86
If he's upset, you can also barely tell.
87
And the solution for this person is not, you should learn to really emote.
88
Like you should be more energetic or you should, you know, show your expression on your face more.
89
I don't think that we as founders or leaders can change 180, like even if we wanted to.
90
So it's better to know, here's how I am, and then this is basically a constraint.
91
So if you are someone who's low emoting, instead of trying to be, you know, high emoting, you should basically take that into account and turn up the enthusiasm in your words, in the actual content of your words, instead of relying on your facial expressions or tone of voice to do heavy lifting.
92
Because you're basically like a zero on that criteria, which means that.
93
So that's an example of understanding yourself and understanding if the outcome I want is for people to better understand and read me, then knowing the levers that you actually have to pull can be really useful.
94
So, how does somebody figure out what their baseline is?
95
Like many things, I think it's using your powers of observation and honing your sense of self-awareness.
96
It's not a shortcut, you know, silver bullet type of answer.
97
And your mileage may vary because some people are more perceptive.
98
They are better at noticing the reactions of others.
99
And whether, hey, I just said this and I noticed you reacted in that way.
100
Was that the reaction I was hoping for?
101
If I say this or if I approach it this way, am I going to get the reaction I'm looking for more?
102
So I really take an experimental, iterative approach.
103
And it's very much first principles-based.
104
Am I getting more of the reaction I want to get?
105
Basically, is the main question.
106
And then I'm going to try a bunch of different things along the way to see: does that get me closer to that?
107
Does that feel natural for me?
108
Or does that feel off?
109
Does it feel off because it's a new behavior and a new habit?
110
Or does it feel off because there's something that I don't really believe about what I'm saying?
111
So I think you have to get reps, basically.
112
You know, this is not something where you can pontificate in your own mind endlessly and then come to a breakthrough.
113
I think you need to get out there.
114
You need to be willing to try and then to be honest about the reaction that you are getting and be honest about what you could do to get closer to getting the reaction you want to get.
115
Could you quickly kind of get into this sort of interesting question, which is basically like, in what way should you change?
116
And I think it makes sense.
117
Like we've all seen somebody trying to present pretending to be Steve Jobs that's not, right?
118
And how bad that is, or trying to be Mark Benioff, who is like uniquely, classically sort of charismatic.
119
And at the same time, obviously there's a lot of things you can evolve and grow and get better sort of in the way that you communicate influence, et cetera.
120
In your mind, is it sort of testing different things that leverage kind of the unique parts of you?
121
And ultimately, the North Star is: are you getting the thing that you want or the reaction that you want in people?
122
Yeah, I think testing different things and also getting feedback from others.
123
So both explicit feedback and implicit feedback.
124
I think that most people over-index on explicit feedback.
125
So we wait until, you know, our colleague complains about something or, you know, gives us very direct feedback before we're like, oh, okay, this was bothering them.
126
Whereas if you took a step back and noticed more, you would probably notice that this thing was bothering that person long before they spoke up about it.
127
So I'm a big fan of looking for implicit feedback as well as whatever someone is explicitly saying.
128
And yeah, I think going out and trying is the way to see what feels natural for you and what is resonating with your recipients, with your audiences.
129
You can't know that until you go out and try.
130
And I would say that trying in a lower stakes way is better than trying in a very high-stakes way.
131
So before you try to present like Mark Benioff or Steve Jobs in a high-stakes setting, try presenting that way with some of your coworkers behind the scenes.
132
And if you can tell that it's not really working, it's kind of cringe, or you're getting that feedback, then that's a sign that, hey, maybe I switched things up.
133
Maybe I try something different.
134
Do you think most people can get quite good at actually understanding how what they're doing is landing with other people or reading sort of people's reactions?
135
I think there are people who are innately better at, quote, reading the room.
136
There are a lot of people who tend to be like, struggle with actually understanding what other people are feeling or thinking about the thing that they are doing.
137
And so do you think that's like a muscle that most people can sort of get better at?
138
I totally agree that there are some people who are naturally better at this, who are naturally more attuned to reading situations, reading people.
139
I do think that this is a skill that you can get better at.
140
I think from far away, a lot of things look like magic.
141
But if you come closer and you dissect what is actually happening, a lot of things can be broken down into component parts.
142
And so, you know, I've personally seen clients really improve in this area.
143
I teach part of this in my course as well, where, you know, students will come in and they'll report being shocked and horrified that an executive that they were presenting to was skeptical about something.
144
And upon just a little bit of further digging, I realized that they didn't present their idea very well at all.
145
The reason why their audience was confused or skeptical or there was a lot of friction or apathy was because they explained their idea extremely poorly.
146
That when they explained it to me, I was also confused.
147
I also was like, where are we going with this?
148
This is confusing.
149
Why are we talking about this?
150
And so, you know, it helps to get that feedback from someone because sometimes in our own minds, we make a lot of sense.
151
Outside of our own heads, other people lack the context or tacit knowledge that we have that we don't even know that we have.
152
So, I often find that there is so much room for improvement before you reach the edges of, wow, it's really hard to read this situation or read that situation.
153
Usually, upon a really quick glance, I'm like, yeah, like you jump straight into nitty-gritty details, started talking in a really chronological way of what happened starting from the past three months up until now.
154
And that is confusing for someone who is hearing about this for the first time, right?
155
And what you could have done instead was frame the topic up front to say, We're here to talk about the new feature that we're launching for X.
156
The last time we talked about it, we had said that this product flow was confusing.
157
And so, I took a stab at rewriting some microcopy, working with the UX team, and I want to show the new flow to you.
158
And what I'm looking for is your feedback about whether you think this is clear.
159
And if so, we're going to launch this next week.
160
If you, if they had said something like that versus jumping straight into the deep end, their audience would have understood more clearly what they were trying to say, right?
161
So, I think that there's so much that we can do to communicate more clearly, to be clear about what our own main point is, and then to frame that up to make it easy for our audiences to receive.
162
Why do you think there often is so much lack of clarity and communication?
163
I think as founders and as operators, there's so much going on on a daily and weekly basis.
164
We are often back-to-back, jumping from one meeting into the next and then answering Slack messages in between.
165
I think that people just don't put enough thought into their communication.
166
One big takeaway that students of my course have is: even by spending a couple moments, literally 15 to 30 seconds, getting grounded on what am I really trying to say?
167
What does this person need to know?
168
What is my main point?
169
And what's potentially secondary?
170
Spending a couple moments asking yourself these questions allows you to write a message that is much clearer and allows you to speak up on a call, in a meeting, in a way that gets your main point across much better.
171
So, I think that the biggest bottleneck to clear communication, to being concise, is lack of preparation.
172
And I don't mean that you have to prepare for hours for every call, for every meeting, for every Slack message you're writing.
173
Even a couple moments can make a really big difference.
174
Because if you are not clear in your own mind about what you are trying to say, of course, when you say it out loud, it's going to be confusing.
175
Of course, it's going to feel meandering.
176
Because when you're there in real time speaking, you're actually asking your brain to do a bunch of different processes.
177
You are taking in information in that real-time setting, you're processing it, you're thinking about it, you're connecting it to previous information that you have, and then trying to formulate a response and then execute, say that response out loud, all in the span of milliseconds, which is asking your brain to do a lot.
178
So, in my experience, this is a very unglamorous solution, but preparation is the most surefire way to be clear, whether you are communicating in writing or in a meeting.
179
Sort of in a similar vein, what are the things in this sort of broad bucket of communicating more effectively or clearly?
180
What are the things that you end up talking the most about with people that are sort of seeking you out on these topics or the few frameworks or perspectives that kind of tend to have the biggest ones is starting with your ideal outcome in mind.
181
So instead of sharing what comes to mind in an ad hoc way, especially for high stakes or important conversation, thinking about what is the end goal?
182
What is my ideal outcome?
183
And then working backwards from there to where am I now?
184
Given my situation, who's my recipient?
185
Who are other potential stakeholders involved?
186
What are the levers that I have that I could potentially pull that I have access to?
187
What are any sensitivities that I need to be mindful of given the situation?
188
And then and only then, thinking about what should I say.
189
It's starting with point B, which is where I want to end up, coming back to point A with where I am.
190
And then what you say is how you get from point A to point B, but that's really all a means to an end.
191
And so I find that breaking down a situation and having a very goal-oriented approach is a useful way to clarify what might I want to do, what might I want to say in a way that is more focused.
192
So often with my executive coaching clients, we'll do that.
193
So we'll start with what is the outcome that you want from the other person.
194
And I'll give an example.
195
One of my coaching clients is head of finance at a Series A company, and he wanted to convince his founder CEO to adopt a more standard way of measuring CAC because the way that they were doing it was not standard.
196
And my client, the head of finance, thought that this would cause issues down the line.
197
So the CEO was pretty resistant over a couple months.
198
And the head of finance said, my ideal outcome is I want the CEO to hear me.
199
I want to be heard.
200
I've tried talking about this to him, you know, for so long now, I want him to hear me.
201
And I said, that is not a good idea.
202
That is actually your ideal outcome.
203
Whether you feel heard or not is a means to an end.
204
That is kind of a nice to have, but that's not really the actual outcome.
205
So, even figuring out what is the end result that I want takes some judgment.
206
And then, of course, working backwards into, you know, where are we now?
207
How do we get there?
208
What is most likely to appeal to this person based on what you know about their worldviews, things that bother them?
209
You know, especially a lot of my clients are startup executives that report to a founder CEO, and founder CEOs are idiosyncratic creatures.
210
You know, they are who they are, and you're not going to get very far, in my experience, trying to change who they are or trying to force them into entering your world.
211
It is much better to frame whatever it is you want to talk to them about or your recommendation under an existing umbrella of what they already care about, of values they already have, of ways that they already think the business should be run.
212
And so, in my experience, being strategic about your communication is much more likely to get you more of what you want than being more ad hoc about it.
213
What else could you share about that dynamic of communicating specifically executives with founders and sort of that specific dynamic?
214
Is there anything else you've noticed in the most productive ways to communicate or things that tend to get in the way in that specific sort of set of relationships?
215
I think most founders have a pretty strong point of view about the way that things should be.
216
And they tend to be more obsessive than executives, in my experience.
217
I think this is a good thing.
218
I think that you want founders who have a strong point of view, who are obsessed about whatever they're obsessed with.
219
I think something that can get in the way is when executives are expecting the founder to be less spiky, to be more balanced or more reasonable, I would say.
220
I think that many pairings of execs and founders that work really well are when execs recognize that their founder can be spiky in different ways that might not really make sense, that they are really good at certain things and not as good at other things.
221
And instead of expecting your founder to get better at those things, I think as an executive, you will get further if you assume that your founder's personality is a constraint.
222
That is a constraint.
223
And if you are especially reporting to a startup CEO, I think you need to be okay with the founder's personality as it is.
224
In my course, I get a lot of questions from folks who essentially ask how to better handle their managers, including startup CEOs.
225
But the question behind the question, the underlying question, is basically, how can I change this person?
226
How can I make them more of the leader that I want them to be?
227
And you, as an individual, likely don't have the leverage to do that.
228
You are battling years of this person being this way, having reached success being the way that they are.
229
And so it's kind of a losing battle to try to change that person.
230
It is much better to assume that that person is the way that they are.
231
You are not going to be able to change them.
232
And so asking yourself, can you live with that?
233
Can you be happy and thrive in an environment where you have to work closely with this person?
234
And the second question is: what can I do to make this working relationship better?
235
So instead of assuming that the CEO or the founder will change to make your relationship better, if anyone is changing, it's you as the executive.
236
You have to ask yourself, how can I better mold myself to work better with this person?
237
And I have an exercise in my course about getting in the head of your manager.
238
And one really funny, interesting insight that comes out of this when we review the exercise response is some people, you know, a lot of people will say, yeah, like I know my manager wants more of XYZ from me or wishes I were more this way.
239
And I keep hoping that they won't want that anymore.
240
But it's been two years supporting this person and every single time they wish I would bring more data or every time they get skeptical in these areas.
241
And so like clearly there are patterns, right?
242
These are both probably implicit and explicit clues that we are getting about what our manager or CEO or founder wants from us.
243
And yet we delude ourselves thinking maybe they'll change.
244
Maybe they won't want this from me anymore.
245
And that's not really a winning proposition.
246
It's much better to acknowledge that and then decide, you know, how do I want to adjust my behavior?
247
Is it just that the executive or manager is in a place of power, which means that they should not change, but the person underneath them should?
248
Like there is a little bit of irony in that.
249
Like this is the sort of immovable object and I'm the one that sort of has to contour around that.
250
Yeah, I think that's the reality of the situation.
251
I think acknowledging things as they are is useful because you don't end up spinning and wasting cycles and emotional labor trying to change something that you can't really change.
252
And power dynamics are one of those things.
253
So especially if you are the exec reporting to the CEO, to the founder, then yeah, I think that acknowledging that power dynamic is very useful.
254
On the other side, I think if you are the founder in this situation, it is also useful to be self-aware of the ways that you might be impacting the people that you're working with.
255
And if you are consistently getting feedback, that a certain part of your behavior is not productive, then it's up to you to decide: do I want to continue that and suffer the consequences?
256
Can I live with the consequences?
257
Or is that something that I might want to change?
258
Knowing that, being the person in power, you know, by the time anyone's speaking up to challenge you or to give you feedback, this has probably been bothering them for longer than you knew.
259
And so I think on the founder side, it's not, I think it's, it's treating that power dynamic with the respect that it deserves.
260
Knowing that, hey, I'm the one in power here.
261
I know that you are probably going to mold yourself to fit me, but that doesn't mean that I should act in ways that are potentially destructive or unproductive.
262
Like, I also want to make sure that I am making this a good relationship.
263
And when both parties try, but don't expect anything from the other person, I find that that ends up creating a solid relationship.
264
How do you think about the adjacent topic, which is basically in what ways should people change, right?
265
And, you know, if you're the person you're reporting to wants more quantitative rigor, but you're a much more intuitive person, maybe to be successful in this specific role, you need to be more quantitative, but maybe to sort of get the most out of yourself, you need to find another environment that actually values the intuitive nature that you have or whatever it might be.
266
There's this great book from decades and decades ago called The Effective Executive that a lot of people haven't read, but it's this famous book from Drucker.
267
And like one of the basic points is that companies generally focus on weaknesses of individuals and improving weaknesses instead of trying to get an incredible understanding of what people are actually insanely good at and just like pushing entirely into those things.
268
And I would say like in general, if you think about like traditional performance management, it is here's the three things you can do better, go work on those things.
269
And I'm interested in sort of what you've noticed either in the context of founders or executives, sort of how to reason or work through like what are the gaps you actually should close.
270
I'm a huge proponent of leaning more into your strengths, if only because there's usually only so much that you can do to address something that is not strong for you.
271
And so it's much more highly leveraged to dive deeper into your strengths if possible.
272
I think the challenge with that on the ground floor is that, especially with founders, you are often the best person or the most available person to do something.
273
So you don't always get to only focus on your strengths.
274
There are many times when you need to operate out of your core zone of genius.
275
And so I think ideally, yes, like ideally focusing on the parts that come naturally for you and choosing roles that allow you to leverage your strengths and being able to leverage your strengths maybe 80% of the time in your role, whether as founder or operator.
276
If you find yourself having that ratio flipped where 20% of the time you're using your strengths, 80% of the time you're, you know, kind of feeling like you're flailing, kind of feeling like you're doing stuff that you're not very good at, not very naturally suited for, I mean, that's where a role change could make sense.
277
And I think it's actually a lifelong practice and endeavor to get ever closer at understanding what are you very good at and comes naturally for you and where is there a market demand.
278
After every role in my career, I've reflected on this and I think I've gotten ever closer to a setup where I am using my natural strengths.
279
But I do think it's something that you need to actively reflect on because it's so easy to get pulled in a bunch of different directions.
280
And you might look up one day and realize that you're working.
281
That's just not as enjoyable of a way, I think, to go through your career.
282
So, what did that look like for you when you think about your own arc of your career and like the first couple things that you've done and now the last couple of things that you've done?
283
Like, how has it become more aligned with sort of that set of ideas you were talking about?
284
Yeah.
285
So, I'll give an example where I worked on this skill or on this weakness, I would say, until it was not a blocker for me, but then intentionally started choosing roles where this was not a core need.
286
So, I used to be pretty disorganized and bad about operational details.
287
And early in my career, this was pretty prohibitive for me because I was in a brand management role and had to manage multiple launches for multiple SKUs with different launch timelines, production timelines, et cetera.
288
It was a physical product.
289
And it was really overwhelming keeping track of all of it.
290
I dropped a ton of balls and I realized that if I am to advance to the next level where, you know, as a manager, I might not have to manage all these details myself anymore.
291
I'm never going to get there because I'm never going to get promoted if I'm so bad at managing all these different details.
292
And so, I put concerted effort into learning to become more organized, to become better at project management to a point where I could keep track of different projects and where they were and could communicate upwards and keep the appropriate parties aware of what was happening.
293
But I knew that this was never going to be a strength of mine.
294
That to this day, logistical details very much stress me out.
295
I tried to outsource it as much as possible.
296
I still dread doing things that require a lot of logistical detail, especially ones that have a high downside.
297
So, I literally changed career paths after that role.
298
But I also learned a lot about myself from that and realized that choosing roles that had more ideation, that had, I think, not shaping something from the ground up, how to sell it, go to market, like those were things I liked about brand management.
299
And so, for my next role, I looked for more of that.
300
And so, with every role, it was like, okay, here are the parts that I dreaded that I could brute force my way through, but were not very enjoyable.
301
And then, here were parts that came very naturally to me that I kind of lost track of time doing it, or, you know, wish my more of my role were doing this aspect.
302
What org might need this?
303
What type of role might need this?
304
And how do I position myself for that?
305
After you sort of have that role, do you sort of sit down and open a notebook and sort of collect your thoughts in that way to try to figure out what to do next, or is it more organic in terms of the way that you've gone about doing it?
306
It's probably a mix of both.
307
I think writing out what I'm thinking and writing about my problems, often by the end of writing it out, I come to a solution for myself, which is fantastic.
308
So, I'm a big proponent of, I don't know if you want to call it journaling per se, it's more like problem solving through stream of conscious writing.
309
I do a lot of reflection that way.
310
The other aspect that is a bit more organic is more driven from, I guess, strong feelings in either way.
311
Strongly disliking something and wanting to avoid it and just realizing that.
312
And then strong feelings in another direction: oh, like I really liked working on this part of the project, or I really like working with this type of client.
313
I look forward to working with this other client.
314
The hour went by so quickly, and we had, I have a bit less to say.
315
Like, it still feels helpful for that person, and they tell me it's helpful, but I feel less on point.
316
I feel less on fire, you know?
317
So, I think it's checking in with yourself on how did that feel.
318
So, that is a bit more intuitive, but I see those as clues that our bodies are trying to tell us about what was exciting and what was not.
319
And having the chance to work with lots of people in a variety of different roles over a long period of time, I'm often struck at how few people are introspective about this topic: like, what am I purpose-built to do, and how well fit is that to the job that I'm doing.
320
And maybe there's some sort of cognitive bias that oftentimes when somebody starts down a path, they just, there's kind of like the status quo bias, like, I'm going to keep doing that thing.
321
You have somebody that's in marketing, and they generally just want to keep perpetuating, well, I started out as a junior marketing manager, and then I want to be a marketing manager, and on and on and on.
322
And oftentimes, I've just, it feels like, and maybe I'm wrong in some of these situations, but like when you're observing the person, you're kind of saying, I just think they're doing the wrong thing.
323
But it's interesting how infrequent it feels like there's kind of that type of reflection and then sort of a meaningful change where somebody recognizes that this thing isn't shaped correctly for me.
324
One of the things that I've reflected on is it feels like one of the most valuable things for society would be to better match people with the thing that they're doing.
325
You know, you find, you take a job that you or me might find really difficult and unpleasant to do, some sort of, I don't know, obscure accounting role.
326
And it's this extraordinary thing when you see sort of that type of matching.
327
But I've often wondered, and maybe there needs to be just more directness at work where other people are trying to explain that maybe they're built for something else and they should reflect on that.
328
But I don't know.
329
I see most people, like what they start to do, they just kind of keep doing.
330
Yeah, I think whatever default status quo you're facing, you know, I'm in marketing, so I continue to be in marketing.
331
I think that ends up being what most people do, probably partially due to some costs.
332
Like I've already invested X number of years in this field.
333
If I change fields, I have to start over.
334
That sucks.
335
There might also be an element of golden handcuffs too, with not wanting to start over or not wanting to take a pay cut or, you know, a lower title, whatever.
336
But I love what you mentioned about there are accountants out there that love the kinds of things that you and I would hate doing.
337
And I think it's such a great reminder that whatever it is you find extremely difficult and unnatural for you, there is someone out there who loves doing that and it comes extremely naturally for them.
338
So if you are in a role that requires you to do this thing that you are not very good at and could not see yourself getting much better at, in some ways you're competing with someone who naturally is good at this thing and enjoys it.
339
And who is going to win in the long term?
340
The person who, where this comes very naturally for them, or you struggling, barely, you know, making things work, where five units of input of effort result in one unit of output.
341
Whereas that person, you know, where this comes naturally to them, it's one unit of input, five units of output.
342
When I think about that, I think that the deck is stacked not in my favor.
343
That there's just no way that I could potentially win or succeed.
344
And my day-to-day wouldn't be very fun either if I'm working on something that I'm not very good at.
345
So, from a very practical, you know, pragmatic perspective, I think that each of us needs to be more introspective on this because most things take longer than you think.
346
Most things are harder than you think, especially if you're building something new.
347
And you need the deck stacked in your favor as much as possible.
348
I always say, you know, to folks who pitch me with their startup ideas, that what is your unfair advantage doing this?
349
If a random person, the next person who walks down the street, could have an equal likelihood of making this work, I think you're probably working on the wrong thing.
350
And that unfair advantage doesn't need to be years of prior industry experience.
351
It can be a weird obsession with this problem.
352
Like you've never worked in retail, but you are super curious about it and you've always been obsessed about it.
353
Awesome.
354
There's plenty of people who found themselves started companies in industry they had no experience in were succeeding.
355
So there needs to be something though.
356
And I consider obsession an unfair advantage as well, but that there's interest there, right?
357
You want to be thinking about it.
358
You want to be working on it.
359
You are curious about it.
360
You know, it's where your head is naturally going.
361
Like working with, not against who you are and what you're naturally good at, I think something we could do more.
362
And I personally spent years working against that.
363
And I think also earlier in your career, you have more energy and you're able to brute force your way through things.
364
And as I've gotten older, I've realized that it is increasingly harder to get myself to do shit that I don't want to do.
365
Before, I used to be able to just power through.
366
And so, from again, from a practical perspective, when I think about the next, you know, couple decades of my career, like if I am increasingly finding it harder to get myself to do things that don't come naturally to me, then looking ahead, like I need to make sure I'm doing something that comes easily to me and make sure that there's market demand for it and it's providing value to others, et cetera.
367
So, I think early on in your career, most of us start by brute forcing, you know, because we don't have a lot of skills, we don't have a lot of experience, and then we forget midway through our career that maybe we shouldn't just brute force things anymore and that there is a difference between good struggle and bad struggle.
368
And I think that especially for high performers, ambitious people, we're so used to reframing difficulty as opportunity, right?
369
It's the whole like, oh, it's not anxiety, it's excitement, right?
370
We're very good at reframing these things in order to climb bigger mountains, climb the next mountain, et cetera.
371
But I think at a certain point in your career, being able to distinguish bad struggle, as in, you know, I find this really hard.
372
I don't ever see it getting easier.
373
Like, I would say that's not really productive versus like, oh, this is in an area that I like working in.
374
This is a hard problem.
375
I don't know the answer yet, but I'm excited to work on it.
376
And I can see myself finding a solution.
377
That is a different kind of struggle that is much more productive.
378
So I've gotten much more attuned at differentiating between bad struggle and good struggle.
379
Is there anything else sort of in the theme that we're talking about that you tend to sort of tell folks that are sort of seeking your advice or thinking about, do I want to change roles or change directions?
380
Or, you know, you've been doing marketing for five years.
381
And as we were talking about a second ago, for most people, the next five years, you're going to be doing marketing.
382
And there's often not a lot.
383
I think doing an audit and taking stock of the parts of your role that really light you up and the parts of your role that you have to summon internal fortitude to really get through.
384
I think doing that reflection is helpful.
385
Because as we go through our time within a certain organization, things often change pretty quickly without us realizing it.
386
And so your role might have started being very much aligned with what your strengths are.
387
But over time, due to changes external to you, your role might now be only a small fraction is what you actually like doing.
388
And so, you know, looking up once in a while from the day-to-day to take stock, I find that to be helpful.
389
Do you advise people to take stock in any specific way?
390
The way that I would recommend is to pay attention to what gives you energy versus what feels like it is depleting energy or something that you tread.
391
So it might be, I wonder if, you know, I don't know if paying attention to your emotions is necessarily the right way to put it, but paying attention to your excitement level and energy level, I would say.
392
And then the other aspect of that is thinking about what would make you not feel resentful.
393
I think that a lot of times we continue on because we're continuing on.
394
And, you know, if there's not a big payout at the end of that, or if there's not a promotion or, you know, some reward, I've found myself in the past looking back on, you know, wherever I worked on and thinking, just feeling a bit resentful about the time spent there or like what I did, you know, and I don't think that that's productive for anyone.
395
And so I like making sure that the journey is as worth it and as enjoyable as whatever destination, because especially with startups, I see a lot of operators picking a company because they're betting on that company and you should do that.
396
But like chances are, right?
397
You want to look back and be like, I learned a ton and I did a bunch of things that I wouldn't have gone to do and I built a bunch of cool stuff and I am a different, sharper, better leader now, an operator now than I was before, you know, even without whatever, you know, golden payout.
398
And so I think as you think ahead to, you know, do I want to commit to another X number of years here or double down on this path, thinking about avoiding resentment is another good thought experiment.
399
One of the things that you've written a decent amount about is sort of the topic of being more strategic or communicating in a more strategic way.
400
I'm interested when someone gets the feedback you need to be more strategic, which I think is a very common thing that is given to all sorts of people.
401
What's sort of the coaching that you tend to do with somebody, let's say they came to you and said, oh, my manager said I'm not strategic enough.
402
What should I do?
403
The first thing that I would suggest, if you hear you're not being strategic enough, is to get more clarity about what your manager actually means.
404
I think that all of us have either had a manager over the years tell us, I would like you to be more strategic, or we have been that manager who has told someone, I want you to be more strategic.
405
So we throw this advice or this recommendation or feedback around so casually without really, I think on the manager side, getting more specific about what does that actually look like for you in your role in this context?
406
What does not strategic look like or less strategic?
407
And then what would more strategic look like across a couple of different dimensions of the things that you work on?
408
And so I think that the worst thing that you can do is, if you hear that feedback, is start making a bunch of changes.
409
And then you check in with your manager three months from now and you're like, so manager, what do you think?
410
You know, I've made all these changes.
411
And usually the response you're going to hear is, wait, what?
412
Like, I first I didn't notice.
413
And secondly, that wasn't actually what I meant.
414
Like, I'm glad you're doing those things.
415
And that's awesome, but it didn't actually solve the core problem that I was actually trying to get you to work on.
416
So, you know, I've learned this the hard way.
417
I now teach this in my course that if you hear vague behavioral feedback, like be more strategic, other examples are improve your executive presence, manage up more, be more data-driven.
418
These are all very common things.
419
Think more strategically, right?
420
These are all very common things that we might hear.
421
And it's a good idea to get more context.
422
And your manager might not be able to share more specifics if you just ask them point blank.
423
So you may need to ask indirectly and draw that information out of them.
424
So, you know, for example, when I did this thing, like, would you say that that was strategic or did it not feel strategic?
425
Or what are examples of my peers, you know, other product managers or other marketers that you feel like are strategic, right?
426
So if you get some examples, you can then read between the lines and realize, oh, that person always does this.
427
Or I've noticed, you know, the couple people that this, my manager mentioned tend to do this, right?
428
So you kind of read between the lines to put together what does being strategic really mean, and then run it by your manager to say, a couple patterns I've noticed are this.
429
Like if I started to do that, would that be valuable?
430
Would that, you know, feel more strategic?
431
And it's much easier for most leaders to react to something you're putting in front of them, to correct you, basically, to say, yes, that, no, not that, than it is to say, you know, they've gathered from all of their interactions with you that you are not strategic and they're now sharing that with you.
432
And I think it's our job as operators to then unpack it and clarify and get to that next level of specificity so that we can fix the right things.
433
Do you think, in your experience, when a manager gives feedback like that about being more strategic, that there's a few things they're generally trying to communicate, or is it truly like a long tail?
434
It could be 60 different things that that manager is trying to communicate.
435
It's probably a few things for the individual that they're giving that feedback to.
436
So, the problem is, if you're the operator hearing that, you're not sure what those things are.
437
But for the manager saying it, yeah, I do think that it's a couple situations that have shown that manager that, hey, this person could be thinking more strategically.
438
And so, a couple examples of what it could be: you know, I see operators sometimes be too zoomed in to the project or the task in front of them without considering organizational context.
439
So, that could be an example of you're not really thinking strategically, you're focusing on the how of getting this exact thing done, but you're not thinking about how does this stack rank amongst other things that we're doing?
440
How does this impact other things, or how is it impacted by other things?
441
So, that's one way of what be strategic could mean.
442
Another could be thinking more about what, like choosing what to do versus just the how.
443
If you are used to something being fairly scoped and defined by the time it arrives at your desk, you're thinking about, well, how do I get this done?
444
How do I bring this to fruition?
445
Where's the next level that your manager might be looking for is you doing the shaping, you saying, we should do this, not that.
446
And here's why, and here are the trade-offs, and here are the risks involved, and choosing what to prioritize and doing that shaping.
447
So that's another idea of what being more strategic would look like.
448
And so, yeah, for the operator, it's, I think it's, you know, you need to be the one to figure out, okay, what does my manager meet here?
449
Yeah, I've noticed a lot of times it also feels like, to your point, about maybe just focusing on low-level tactics or some project in isolation versus figuring out how everything is constantly connecting to what needs to happen in the business, I think, is like another form of that.
450
The ability to sort of understand the business and then translate that into this thing over here and then break that thing down into sort of the actual things that sort of ultimately need to happen.
451
I think it's very easy in companies and startups to just get lost and not focused on things that actually matter.
452
Like, what are we trying to do in the business?
453
Why are we trying to do those things?
454
What are all the different levers we have to pull?
455
And then, like, is this thing over here that I'm doing, does it ultimately matter to the business?
456
Like, that tying back to sort of things multiple rungs above you, I think, is often sort of a gap that I've noticed.
457
I think another gap that I've seen is stack ranking and prioritizing which problems are actually worth solving.
458
And so, you know, junior operators will come up with different ideas, and it's not necessarily a bad idea, right?
459
Because most of the time, if it's obviously a good idea, done, we're going to do it.
460
Awesome.
461
If it's obviously a bad idea, you probably wouldn't have brought it up.
462
But the next level of thinking strategically is, is this a problem worth solving?
463
Because a business is pretty much a bunch of problems all the time.
464
And when you solve some of those problems, you have a new set of problems.
465
And so you're just constantly dealing with problems.
466
And just because something is a problem doesn't mean it warrants resources to solve or the resources that you are asking for to solve.
467
And so, you know, developing that sense of right-sizing of context of, you know, is the juice worth the squeeze here to try to solve this?
468
Are we going to get enough upside if we improve this?
469
Or is this a problem that we live with?
470
You know, it's a little fire that we're going to let burn because working on these other problems are more important.
471
And so it's, I find that it's, it's rarely like this was a bad idea or this is not a problem.
472
It's more like this is a decent idea and yes, this is a problem, but it's not hairy enough to warrant taking action on.
473
Or the upside isn't big enough to invest, you know, all this effort in building out this program or building out this campaign or whatever else.
474
And I find that with junior people, that that can be harder to learn.
475
So I wanted to switch gears a little bit.
476
A while ago, you worked on creating what is called the Alt MBA with Seth Godin, who seems like a very interesting human in general.
477
And I thought it would be interesting just to hear more about that specific effort that you started and like, what were some of the interesting things that you took away from that?
478
Yeah.
479
So Seth and I started the Alt MBA together.
480
How did you meet Seth?
481
He put out a job posting on his blog and I did not know him before and was vaguely familiar with his work as a marketer.
482
You know, I knew he was a famous altar.
483
And I was in San Francisco at the time.
484
I grew up in the Bay Area and was looking to move to New York.
485
And it was like, okay, I'm going to apply for this.
486
If I get it, awesome.
487
It was a six-month stint.
488
And then I can find a full-time thing in New York afterwards.
489
And so that six months ended up turning into three years.
490
What was in your application?
491
Like, how did you get his attention?
492
I'm reaching back into memory lane now because this is 2014, so 11 years ago.
493
So the application, there was a written portion with like short answer questions, and then there was a video component, which I actually borrowed for hiring at Maven because I found it to be so useful.
494
But the video was, you know, film a two to three minute video talking about what you want to build, what you want to learn, and what your strengths are.
495
Something like that.
496
And I did my video in one take because I thought, like, there's no way I'm going to get this.
497
Like, a lot of people want to work with Seth Coden.
498
What are the chances that I'm going to make it through?
499
So I didn't want to be too emotionally invested in, you know, creating this perfect application, doing 50 takes, and then not getting it.
500
So I did in one take.
501
I thought, this is good enough.
502
I sent it off.
503
And the next day, I see Seth in my inbox.
504
And he's like, hey, I liked your application.
505
I think you could, you know, be a good fit.
506
Do you want to hop on a call?
507
So we did a Skype call because Skype was the thing back then.
508
Zoom wasn't even around.
509
And Skype is literally last week as being Sunset.
510
I know.
511
I know.
512
Yeah.
513
Yeah.
514
Nice connection there.
515
Yeah.
516
So we did a Skype call and then we did an in-person interview because he's normally based in Westchester, New York, but was going to be in California for an event, for a speaking event in the Bay Area.
517
So we met up, did an interview there, and then I got the role.
518
And so how did that role translate to what ultimately became the Alt MBA?
519
The first six months were special projects lead type work.
520
And so a big part of that was, you know, Seth was closing down the last company he's working on.
521
He'd worked on it for eight years and he's looking for what to do next.
522
And so I did a lot of research on potential businesses he could start, interesting projects, books he could write, teaching that he could do.
523
So there's a lot of bouncing ideas.
524
We had this giant magnetic board with 100 colored index cards with magnets, just a bunch of different ideas.
525
And towards the tail end of that, we coalesced around learning and teaching.
526
Seth's been a teacher for decades by that point, and his audience got a lot from learning directly from him.
527
And at that time, we also were seeing that massive open online courses, MOOCs, pre-recorded courses with videos, were the dominant form of learning, but they weren't engaging.
528
And as I started digging into it, by the way, I was digging into it because one of my other projects at the time was creating Seth's Udemy course, which became a best-selling course, maybe the top-selling one that year.
529
And so as I'm thinking of ideas for Seth to do, plus working on this course, I started digging into the completion rates of video courses and realized that they were abysmally low.
530
I think 3 to 6% is completion rate.
531
And there just seemed to be a huge gap from people learning asynchronously and all the work we were putting into making this Udemy course great and the fact that 3 to 6% of people were actually going to finish it.
532
It felt like this couldn't be the pinnacle of the internet connecting us and like bringing access to different experts like Seth.
533
And so we thought, you know, was there a way that we can flip the script on this?
534
Especially because Seth at the time was still doing a lot of speaking gigs and it was expensive to see Seth in person.
535
So, you know, I also organized a couple in-person events.
536
And it just seemed to be such a big gap between, you know, you either learn watching videos and a tiny percentage won't finish, or you know, you come see Seth in person and it's expensive.
537
And also only a tiny percentage of people can afford flying to New York.
538
So there must be some middle ground.
539
And so that's when we started kicking around ideas that eventually led to launching and founding the Alt MBA.
540
And so that's where, you know, at the end of that six months, Seth said, it sounds like we're both really excited about Alt MBA.
541
Would you want to stay and build it out, run it, grow it?
542
And so that's how we continued on.
543
How did you actually get it off the ground?
544
Like, where did you start with the first group?
545
The first group, I downloaded and scraped Seth's email list and sorted based on at domains for email addresses to see which companies had the most Seth fans.
546
So it was like at lululemon.com, at nike.com, at Clorox, et cetera.
547
And the idea there was: how do we reach out to folks where there's a density in Seth fans in organizations that we want more students from?
548
And so part of the thinking there was, you know, Seth has a lot of readers who are freelancers, solopreneurs, business owners.
549
But when you see students from brand names, that tends to be a bit more exciting for everyone, including the freelancers, seeing that, wow, there's people from Whole Foods taking the course.
550
There's, you know, a director from Kickstarter, et cetera.
551
And so I wanted to create that excitement in the beginning by getting some of these.
552
And so, I sorted the email, looked people up on LinkedIn, thought this person seemed friendly, this person seems like they, you know, they're curious, et cetera, and then would reach out to reach out to specific people.
553
So, that first cohort, we were pretty deliberate about, you know, getting the right kind of people in to really set the culture and the ethos of the program, to set the bar that we wanted to set.
554
And then, shortly after, I want to say after maybe the second or third cohort, is when I realized that relying on Seth's email list was not going to be sustainable for growth.
555
First, because he didn't like spamming his email list, talking about the course, he has his blog, you know, it's mainly about ideas.
556
And then, also, because I wanted the opportunity to nurture leads over time, prospective students over time, and the freedom to do that without always relying on needing to use Seth's blog.
557
And so, early on, I started building an email list separately, and we would drive folks who are interested into that email list.
558
And then, yeah, I think for that one, I wrote 50 email campaigns for emails twice a week for months.
559
Where once someone joined, you would get dripped-out content that would nurture you over time.
560
And then, built out flows from there, with, you know, once you applied for the Alt MBA, you would get kicked off that list into a different list.
561
It was a lot of hands-on building, a lot of nurturing and driving customer acquisition, student acquisition, after the initial program was more set.
562
For those that aren't familiar with Seth, how would you sort of describe him?
563
And what was it like?
564
I mean, I.
565
He's such a unique human.
566
What is it like actually working day to day on something with him?
567
It's hard to describe Seth in a few words because he is such a unique creature.
568
And it was such a privilege to get to work with him so closely for three years.
569
I learned so much, and I would say transformed as an operator, as a leader, as a builder from working so closely with him.
570
What's he like on a day-to-day?
571
He's even sharper in person than he is online, which I think is impressive because, you know, sometimes I'll read people's writing or, you know, watch them in videos and stuff.
572
And then I'll meet them.
573
And I'm like, okay, like, you know, you're pretty sharp.
574
But like, right?
575
Seth is like 10 times funnier, faster thinker in person.
576
Like, he's just even better in person, I would say, which I find impressive.
577
He also has really high standards.
578
He thinks incredibly quickly.
579
And so, you know, there were so many times where I had prepared an explanation to describe something.
580
I don't know, maybe it would have taken three to four minutes.
581
And he would get it in 30 seconds, you know, and it'd be like, oh, okay.
582
You know, and I remember going home for the holidays one year and then coming back to the office and feeling like I had actually dulled in like the two weeks that I had taken off because coming back to the office, I had forgotten just how fast he thinks and how fast I needed to be to keep up.
583
It was like a culture shock, like reintegrating, you know, back into the office kind of situation.
584
He has incredibly high standards.
585
You know, before I was at a Sequoia-backed series CRD startup in SF before working with Seth, and we talked about shipping quickly.
586
But when I started working with Seth, I realized that it was child's play.
587
That was not shipping quickly at all.
588
And that, you know, our standards, my standards, were low.
589
He would have these standards that felt so unreasonable.
590
They were like, it would be upsetting.
591
They were so unreasonable.
592
But then I would find a way to do it.
593
And so this happened over and over.
594
And it really taught me that, A, like, your standards are probably too low, at least for some things, and that you can probably raise them.
595
And that, you know, trade-offs like speed versus quality, you know, like people talk about that and throw that around.
596
Like, you probably have room, or I have room, to be faster and to produce better quality without starting to trade off on either.
597
That in most situations, there's so much slack that until you get to the fringes, yes, there's a trade-off, but you're nowhere close to that.
598
That by sharpening my craft and being more strategic, being a better operator, executing better, being ruthless about where I was hiding or avoiding work I didn't want to do because it was uncertain or it was hard or I was afraid to be wrong.
599
There are just so many ways that I sharpen my execution so that I was both faster and produced higher quality work.
600
And so that like bar setting was probably the biggest thing that I took away from working with him that I continue to think about a lot and continue to try to espouse.
601
When you talk about sort of having an unreasonably high bar, can you make that tangible?
602
Like what's the story that comes to mind to really bring that to life?
603
The story that comes to mind that I've shared on a couple other podcasts as well is that we were figuring out the book list that we wanted to send to all Tim B students.
604
So, you know, a box.
605
I had created this list and was starting to bet from the books.
606
And so I ordered a bunch on Amazon and they arrived.
607
And I told Seth, okay, so I'm going to read through these and it's going to take a couple weeks.
608
You know, I'm going to try to go through a few a week, just which felt fast already.
609
And he was like, you have two days.
610
And at first, I just thought, this is impossible.
611
Like, this is a huge list of books.
612
There's no way I can do this in two days.
613
But once he said that, I started to reframe the problem in my mind and realize that I could get it done in two days if I had to.
614
And so like this reframing, I think is something that when I am faced with a problem that feels impossible, I still now do that reframing.
615
Like, how can I adjust the scope, for example, to make this work?
616
How can I think about the end goal, which is finding books that we can stand behind?
617
And I don't need to read the entire book page by page, cover to cover, to get a sense of whether this is a valuable book or whether it's kind of fluffy and not as relevant.
618
And so shifting my mindset on that problem and changing how I was viewing that problem made a huge difference.
619
And that just happened multiple times a day, every day.
620
There'd be something and I would think, okay, I'm going to come up with something in the next day.
621
And he'd be like, come up with something the next hour, you know, and I would find a way to make it work, you know, and it wasn't like it needed to be exactly as good as it would have been if you had spent days on it.
622
But can we do a directional check-in?
623
Can we kind of get faster, get to the core of the idea faster?
624
Like, oftentimes you can.
625
And so I'm a really big fan of shortening the feedback loop as much as possible these days.
626
And, you know, a big part of it was learning that from Seth.
627
Is that just the way that he intuitively behaves?
628
Yes.
629
Seth is one of the fastest, sharpest thinkers I've ever met from near and far.
630
So he has equally unreasonable standards for himself.
631
He also is very good at his craft and has spent years honing his craft.
632
And so he can get to the right answer quite quickly because he has so many reps.
633
And so I think the meta lesson also from working with Seth is that if you want to do things that seem unreasonable, the leverage needs to come from somewhere.
634
And getting sharper at your craft, at translating your intentions into reality, at translating your idea on paper into something that your customer or your audience, your reader feels, you can improve on that.
635
And you can improve on that by studying your craft.
636
So how does that translate to like you today?
637
How do you define what your craft is and what does it look like to try to hone it in the way that you just described?
638
I think one part of my craft is explaining ideas clearly and in a compelling way.
639
And I see this play out in my newsletter, in social posts, in my course, in coaching.
640
A lot of it comes down to: can I persuade this person to try this way, to see why this problem exists, to consider whatever approach it is that I'm suggesting might be better.
641
And so I think breaking down that craft even more is thinking about what objections might that person have, right?
642
So my brain immediately, when I have an idea, I immediately think: is this really true?
643
How might it not be true?
644
In what situations is it true?
645
And in what situations is it not true?
646
And what questions might someone have if I said this?
647
How might someone misinterpret this?
648
How might someone misapply this?
649
And so, I consider all of this the craft of explaining something well and explaining something clearly.
650
So, I think a lot about that.
651
I also think a lot about persuasion and influence.
652
So, how can I get to the end goal that I'm looking for as quickly as possible?
653
What would be compelling for this person?
654
What are both explicit and implicit things that I can play around with to create something that people want to be part of?
655
You know, I think as founders, that's very, very important too.
656
I think part of your craft as a founder has to be selling your ideas and building hype.
657
Building hype, not necessarily like over-hyped, crypto, you know, stuff like that, like, but building hype as in getting people excited about the thing you are excited about.
658
And that is not always simply saying, this is really exciting, right?
659
Like, that's a little bit too on the nose, it's a little bit direct, or this is groundbreaking, right?
660
It's a lot of telling, not a lot of showing.
661
Whereas the craft of building hype often is creating this aura of this is something that is going places.
662
This is something that other people like you are interested in.
663
So, that might look like getting the right people participating in something, especially early on, and then amplifying that.
664
It might be design choices that signal who this is for and design that's modern and not cringe.
665
Like, it's all these subtle subconscious clues that often get people excited about things.
666
And so, I would say that that is very much craft.
667
Maybe, sort of on that theme, what else might you be able to share in terms of people who are trying to build followership on the internet?
668
You've done that in so many different forms.
669
You've done it for yourself in the past handful of years, you did it for the Alt MBA, and there's tons of examples in between there.
670
And I think you hinted on some of those things, but like for people that are trying to build followership around themselves or a thing that they're doing, what are some of the things, the highest leveraged things that they should sort of keep in mind?
671
From a founder perspective, keeping in mind how you can add value to your audience, I think, is probably the biggest one.
672
So, at Maven, when I was building up, especially our supply side and appealing to instructors, getting subject matter experts on our platforms they could teach courses, a lot of my work was adding value to subject matter experts so that they were learning something new when they interacted with Maven, when they read our posts or my posts, that they were reading something that made them think differently, that helped them solve a problem that they were working on.
673
And so, I would create content around that.
674
I think that a lot of fielding and public content is sometimes too much about your customer versus to your customer.
675
About your customer, meaning, you know, here are revenue graphs of our growth and like this is so exciting.
676
And that is interesting for customers, but I think the meat of what you're sharing should be valuable stuff that is showing your credibility, showing your expertise, showing how you can make your customers like better.
677
And so, for example, with Maven, I would share frameworks on how to turn your ideas into named, claimed frameworks in IP.
678
So, how do you put a visual around it?
679
Is it a pyramid of something?
680
Is it concentric circles?
681
Is it some kind of named framework that encapsulates your ideas, right?
682
And so, subject matter experts flocked to posts like this because this is something that they think about.
683
Another was talking about how to engage audiences if you are teaching on Zoom or lecturing on Zoom.
684
It's very hard for audiences to stay focused for an hour or two hours on Zoom.
685
And so, I shared a concept I called the state change method about how every three to five minutes you should have a state change of some sort, whether that's switching from gallery view mode into slides or vice versa, asking people a question, telling them to put something in Zoom chat, having someone else speak for a little bit, whatever it might be.
686
So, this was also very valuable.
687
By doing this over and over every month, you know, for years, this allowed instructors to realize, wow, Maven really knows what they're talking about.
688
I'm not seeing useful ideas like this anywhere else.
689
And if I am building a course to package up my ideas, Maven is the one that I want it.
690
And so, I really thought about it in terms of our instructors being kind of like baby ducklings.
691
I've talked about this kind of behind the scenes with my co-founders, that customers aren't always ready to buy when they first hear about us.
692
And that's very normal.
693
We don't want to force anyone to do it, do anything they're not ready to do.
694
It's very useful if we are showing up consistently with the right group of people that we believe will eventually become great instructors, and we can have them imprint on us.
695
Like, the first thing that you see, you know, the baby duckling sees, it's its mother, right?
696
And so if instructors are kind of like baby ducklings and Maven is the first platform that they're interacting with as, you know, a source of an option for how to teach online, then when they are ready, months later, or even, you know, a year or so later, they're going to come think of us first.
697
And so how can you add value all along the way to establish yourself as a really strong, credible partner?
698
And do you find that when you're trying to build an audience or followership around a thing, that almost all the same ideas always apply if you're trying to build it around yourself or a person?
699
I think, yeah, I think a lot of the principles apply.
700
I think with an individual, but I would also say this works for companies, having a spiky point of view is really valuable.
701
And so when I say spiky point of view, I don't mean stirring the pot with controversial statements just for the sake of it.
702
I mean having a unique stance based on your lived experience that you are able to back up with evidence, stories, logic, et cetera.
703
And so something that teaches your audience something that they don't already know.
704
If you are just saying stuff people already know, that's just not as useful, right?
705
Like as consumers of content, we're seeing a bunch of stuff and stuff that helps us think differently, that challenges a viewpoint in a productive way.
706
That when you read it, you think, oh, I never thought about it that way.
707
But now that I read this, this makes a lot of sense.
708
And this is actually giving me clarity about some problem that I'm dealing with.
709
Like we all encounter content like that and it's awesome and we want to follow that person.
710
We believe that they have something to add to our lives and values that they can add.
711
So on the creator side, if you want to grow your audience, you want to connect more with your audience, thinking about how can I be that person that is helping.
712
And I would say that almost all of my content starts with considering what is my spiky point of view here.
713
It's very hard for me to write content that theoretically would quote unquote perform well if I'm not interested in it.
714
I just don't have the internal fortitude to follow through and write this post if I don't really, if I'm not fascinated by this thing myself.
715
So it's almost always what is triggering a reaction in me.
716
If I read something and I think, I really agree with this, and I think that, you know, the writer didn't mention this part enough, and that's the part I want to write about.
717
Or I disagree with this.
718
I think that this is a bad take, or the person is missing this variable.
719
And so I want to talk about this factor, you know.
720
And so something that triggers something in me that gives me a spiky point of view that tends to be the source of pretty much everything that I write, whether for a newsletter or for social or for anything else.
721
When you're sitting down and writing something, are you good at knowing what will really, like if you put five things out, are you able to sort rank which will resonate most?
722
Or you're often surprised when you put things out on the internet, wow, this really took off and people connected with, and this I thought was really interesting and nobody really cared.
723
I'm definitely surprised by folks either liking something more than I expected or less than I expected.
724
But everything that I post and put out, I expect to do well.
725
Like I don't put out anything unless I think that it has a chance to really resonate.
726
There's not a very wide range where, you know, I'm posting something that I think won't really land and then it lands.
727
You know, it's more like within this range of a bunch of things I think will land, some things land harder.
728
And do you think that's fairly random in the sense of like somebody reads one thing, they share it, and then it creates sort of this cascade?
729
Or just you can kind of create a threshold, which is like knowing my audience and knowing myself, I have a bar in my mind that I will not put something out that's below it.
730
But outside of that, I actually have no idea what will resonate more, less like humans are complicated.
731
Yeah, I think if we're looking at engagement metrics as what resonates, there are times when I post something and it has 700 likes and dozens of comments.
732
And I would say that that's a pretty successful post on LinkedIn.
733
And then I'll post the same thing six months later and it'll have 300 likes.
734
The content was the same.
735
That to me is a sign that looking at the engagement itself is not a super clear picture of did this resonate or not?
736
Because the algorithm, timing, et cetera, what else happened that day, like there's a lot of things that are outside of my control.
737
I generally have a sense of, if I write something, I would say like 10% of the time, I think this is going to be a bang.
738
Like this is good, you know?
739
And then the other 90%, it's like, I think this is important.
740
I think people need to know it.
741
I think this is interesting.
742
And then I'm not sure, you know, are people going to resonate or not?
743
But again, there are so many things outside of your control.
744
So like a couple months ago, I posted about how to give senior leaders feedback without getting fired.
745
This is a newsletter post.
746
And it became one of my top-performing newsletter posts because someone shared it on Hacker News.
747
And then it like made its way around a bunch of people.
748
You know, so there are those factors which, you know, it's, it's just harder to control.
749
But generally, I find.
750
I think I always thought, I was always a little bit self-conscious about that.
751
I thought that there was a more official or better way to, you know, write what people want and the whole listen to your customers thing.
752
But I found that when I asked newsletter readers to share what they want me to write about, to share questions, I wasn't inspired by their questions.
753
I just didn't have anything to say.
754
Like I would see the question and be like, okay, that's a good question.
755
I don't, it's not triggering anything for me, you know?
756
Whereas when I reflect on my own experiences and things that bother me, pet peeves of mine, things I think are annoying, that's where a lot of my best stuff comes from.
757
And I think, you know, that's kind of going full circle to what we started with: how important it is for founders to have a point of view.
758
Some of it has to come from within you.
759
And the stuff that comes from what I'm personally fascinated by and think is annoying or whatever, that tends to create the best stuff, I think.
760
What's the last thing that annoyed you that turned into something you put out in the world that was interesting?
761
Everything, almost everything I write about, the root is something that annoys me.
762
And then I turn it into something much more positive because the frustration part isn't always, you know, isn't always the best angle.
763
But one that is more literal is: I did a newsletter article and then posted this on social as well about, no, I don't want to hop on a call.
764
And so this was about how many of us default to live conversations when they don't need to be live conversations and it actually wastes everyone's time.
765
And how, you know, if you're not sure how you want to write a message, you're not clear on your idea, I, as your colleague, do not want to be taxed, listening to you talk, you know, meandering for 30 minutes as you.
766
Like, take five minutes, think about it, and then if you really can't come up with an answer, fine, let's hop on a call, but don't make that just your default.
767
And there's obviously many good reasons to hop on a call: brainstorming, you know, situations where showing your facial expressions or tone of voice matters, discussion, et cetera.
768
In my experience, many of the day-to-day interactions we have aren't that.
769
Like, it's a simple question, or you know, sharing information.
770
And you can do that in writing in a much more scalable way that respects the other person's time.
771
So that was an example of something where the beginning of that actually came from a question from a student in my course because I'd shared a screenshot of a Slack message that was a little bit longer, multiple paragraphs and stuff.
772
And the student said, well, that Slack message looks long.
773
Like, should you just hop on a call?
774
And I got so annoyed by this question.
775
Like, what do you mean?
776
First of all, this is not too long.
777
I grayed out to redact the content.
778
So you have no idea what this says.
779
How can you say it's too long without knowing the content?
780
A.
781
And then B, hopping on a call doesn't solve the problem of this being a complex situation that needed to be explained.
782
And in fact, it would probably take longer to hop on a call to talk through something that was really complex if you hadn't figured it out than putting it in writing after putting some thought into it, where the person could read at their own pace, reread certain parts, note parts that they agreed with or disagreed with.
783
You know, and so that's kind of the root of that post came from this question where I was like, wait, like there's a gap here.
784
And, you know, how can I write about it to address that?
785
And then you got that student right out of the course ejected, though.
786
No.
787
I was having dinner with a pretty well-known author last night, and she was saying that most of her books, the origin story is something that bothered her.
788
And that's sort of how she chooses what to write about next.
789
And so she was reading an article in the Washington Post where the author clearly didn't know basic statistics in the way that they were talking about this thing.
790
And it got her so frustrated that it ended up leading to the current book that she's writing.
791
And that's basically how she decides what to do.
792
Yeah, I would say that the inspiration for my course was rooted in frustration too, because I feel like there's so much communication content, books, courses that basically roughly equate communication with public speaking and delivery.
793
So there's a lot of advice on make good eye contact, project your voice, look around the room.
794
And there's a bunch of stuff on, you know, only 7% of what you say is, you know, based on the content, the rest is body language, et cetera.
795
And I feel like most operators already know this.
796
Unless you're super junior, like you kind of already know this.
797
And it's just not that helpful for learning and improving your ability to do well in a high-stakes meeting that's moving quickly with stakeholders with different points of view.
798
Or it just doesn't help much with written communication either.
799
Like, how do you structure your thoughts in writing so that the other person quickly understands what you mean, understands what you need from them?
800
And I just, I felt like there was so much of communication that operators and founders do on a day-to-day basis, where public speaking is actually a terrible mental model.
801
If you think about it, with public speaking, it's one-directional.
802
You're stage on stage.
803
You have one speech which you perfect, your TEDx talk, where like every hand gesture and word is so perfectly mapped out.
804
No one's interrupting you midway to ask you questions.
805
This is not how presentations or meetings or conversations go in a company.
806
You're constantly getting interrupted.
807
It's not always bad.
808
You're not repeating the same speech and perfecting it.
809
It's much more bi-directional.
810
It's much more of a guided conversation than a true, you know, speech or presentation.
811
And I would say, lastly, I think the most important thing is you are interacting with other intelligent colleagues.
812
So this is not like you are the expert and everyone else is a lay person and you have supreme like knowledge about something.
813
You are an expert speaking to other experts who are also sharp, who also have strong points of view, and they're not going to suffer fools, you know, fools.
814
They're not going to hold punches.
815
If something that you said doesn't make sense, the logic doesn't track, you missed a crucial insight, they're going to call you out on it.
816
So the logic of what you are saying, the underlying idea, matters a ton.
817
And I just wasn't seeing any communication content focusing on that piece, on situations where like your underlying idea really matters, being right really matters.
818
So how can you learn to be more right and communicate your ideas clearly, taking into account your recipient, the amount of cognitive load there is, sharing your rationale, and yeah, realizing that there was a gap there and wanting to fill that gap.
819
Maybe this is sort of a good place to wrap up.
820
And I think you already talked about Seth.
821
So I want to ask you to choose someone else, but I want to sort of wrap up where we always do, which is like, who's the person that's imparted something on you that has had like incredible residual value?
822
Like it's the type of thing that you're constantly going back to.
823
Seth is the one who jumps to mind here.
824
I used to have a little Seth voice in my head for different situations.
825
And, you know, I still hear it in my head with, you know, if I'm, he used to call it hiding, where you do stuff that you know how to do because you're more comfortable with it and there's less uncertainty.
826
You're not sure what the right answer is.
827
And he was so ruthless about calling me out whenever I was hiding that I became very intellectually honest with myself on that as well.
828
And so, yeah, I'd say that Seth is probably the person who comes to mind for that.
829
Awesome.
830
Well, thank you so much for joining and having such a wide-ranging conversation.
831
I really appreciate it.
832
Yeah, this is a lot of fun, Brett.
833
Thank you.