--- METADATA START ---
Show: Generative Now | AI Builders on Creating the Future
Episode: How Jobs Will Change as AI Get…
Host: Michael McNano 
Guests: Samil Shah, Mikey Schulman, Anu Etluru, Marissa Mayer
Source URL: https://podcasts.apple.com/us/podcast/how-jobs-will-change-as-ai-gets-better/id1709773028?i=1000712566507
--- METADATA END ---

1
Hello, I am Michael McNano, a partner with Lightspeed, and this is Generative Now.
2
Since ChatGPT debuted in late 2022, people have been asking a simple but pressing question.
3
What happens to human jobs when AI can do them better, faster, and at a fraction of the cost?
4
In this episode, we explore how AI is already transforming the modern workforce, separating what's truly creative and strategic from what's just busy work.
5
We'll look at what gets automated, what gets elevated, and what organizations risk when they don't adapt fast enough.
6
To guide us, we'll revisit conversations with four guests who've been thinking deeply about this shift.
7
Samil Shah, founding general partner at Haystack and Lightspeed Venture Partner.
8
Mikey Schulman, co-founder of Suno, Anu at Luru, founder, physician, and angel investor.
9
And Marissa Mayer, former CEO of Yahoo and now the CEO of her own AI first startup, Sunshine.
10
Here are some of the insights they had to share.
11
We're still in the co-pilot phase of AI.
12
The tools assist, but humans are still in control.
13
But that won't last forever.
14
We're inching towards something more autonomous, where agents don't just help with your work, but own it end-to-end.
15
And here's where things get complicated.
16
Just because you can deploy an agent to do someone's job doesn't mean you should.
17
The short-term upside might come at the cost of long-term capability or talent development.
18
I recently had the chance to mold these topics with frequent podcast guest and lightspeed venture partner, Samil Shah.
19
We talked about how organizations need to move away from thinking about what AI technology can do and start thinking about the things AI can do that are right for their business.
20
So right now, we're more in like the co-pilot phase of things right now.
21
And I think it's easy to trust them.
22
But it's especially easier to trust them because you get to basically check their work, right?
23
Like you still have your hand on the wheel.
24
You know, when I think of co-pilot, I think of Tesla full self-driving.
25
I think of Granola.
26
I think of Microsoft Copilot.
27
Like you're using these things and they're augmenting your capabilities in such a way that you are still in control.
28
But as we all know, these things still make mistakes.
29
They hallucinate.
30
They don't always do what you're intending to do, which is why that control is so important and which is why people are not yet fully comfortable trusting these things.
31
To get to an agentic world outside of the technological improvements that we'll need, and by the way, I believe are coming, I think that trust factor still has a ways to go, right?
32
Like you're not going to farm an agent out to go handle all your personal business without your hand on the wheel.
33
The reason I found this interesting was from a different vector.
34
I was reading Matt Levine from Bloomberg.
35
You know, he used to be this like crazy smart lawyer.
36
He writes a lot about like really arcane fraud or creative fraud.
37
Yep.
38
And he writes a lot about just things happening in financial markets and products.
39
And so he was saying basically that like we've all had these friends who graduated college and go to kind of investment banking and they give up two to three years of their life and they're doing all this grunt work of analysis.
40
And he basically said the main three or four things that an junior investment banker does like AI is either there already or very close to basically completing it, but that the leaders of the bank use those two to three years to like immerse those people in the business and all the vagaries of the business and nooks and crannies so that you know in every class, if they have 100 investment bankers coming out of school, maybe one becomes an MD in 10 years, right?
41
So, if you're leading one of those investment banks or law firms or what have you, and you're trying to groom the next layers of leadership down the road, like, would you allow a full agent to come in and do everything at the risk of not training your underlings?
42
Yeah, or do you have to train them in a different way?
43
I just thought it was a super interesting question that goes beyond like what can the technology do to actually like what's right for the enterprise to implement, right?
44
Like, what is the risk we introduce into this business if we're no longer training people, right?
45
We're putting ourselves on a path to be fully locked into these things.
46
Yeah, like yesterday, um, met a guy who's just building an ability to go into and do these like you know, 500,000 slide slide decks for like deep consulting work, right?
47
That's his first product in like super hyper-focused.
48
So, imagine you and I were McKinsey leaders and the top GP managing different offices, thinking about this problem.
49
We're in our 40s, we're going to be here into our 60s, and we need to groom the 20 to 25-year-olds in that world.
50
How would we approach the introduction of that technology?
51
You know, because like the short-term carrot is to like reduce our OpEx costs and we make more money, but then there may not be people who are like trained by fire later, right?
52
I don't know.
53
I just found that fascinating.
54
We're sort of like proactively signing up to eliminate ourselves by doing that.
55
Like, once we crack the door open, we're already heading down the path because what you're saying is like we're basically making ourselves extinct because we're not even training the next generation.
56
The way you frame it is fascinating because I had a different frame.
57
I think it's more like people who run businesses will still want like Andrew, when it becomes the next thing it's going to be, is still going to use consultants because consultants are valuable in some ways.
58
Maybe I'm not thinking broadly enough.
59
Maybe I'm thinking like they'll have their own little army of consultant agents, right?
60
I don't know.
61
But I think of it as like the human-to-human, like the person leading the company will want to talk to another principal who has expertise across that sector and to give them an outside perspective.
62
And then, will those people still exist 10, 20 years from now?
63
This feels like the right time then to start talking about artificial superintelligence.
64
I mean, this is the theory of artificial superintelligence, ASI: once it is created and it is agentic, that what you're left with is a drop-in coworker that can not only do everything, but that can do it way better than you and I ever could, or any McKinsey consultant ever could.
65
And by the way, it's going to be a fraction of the cost of hiring that consultant.
66
Yeah, I think there are a lot of people who believe that that's the future we're headed towards, and it might be here pretty soon.
67
Right.
68
So, let's go back to the McKinsey example.
69
If you and I are the co-leaders of McKinsey right now, how do you not want this?
70
How do you not want this?
71
The short-term juice you get, each mid-level consultant who's getting on a plane and building these decks and doing all the synthesis, they have their own teams, right?
72
They have their own entourage that you're paying, and you're delivering this to the client.
73
You can reduce your cost of goods sold tremendously, and the profits go back to the partnership and the endowment.
74
Your short-term incentive is to do it.
75
Quite perverse.
76
You're taking a leap of faith that it doesn't start at the bottom and ultimately eat its way all the way up to the top.
77
Right.
78
Because it would probably start from the bottom, right?
79
Like, if you factor in this trust dynamic, you're going to trust the lowest level employees to be replaced or augmented by these things first.
80
And slowly, as the capabilities increase, they're going to go a layer up and a layer up and a layer up.
81
And where does it end?
82
I don't know.
83
I guess it depends how intelligent these things get.
84
I almost talk myself into a different corner because of the Android thing of like, I've listened to all these Parmi Lucky interviews, and I'm almost can imagine him being on this podcast and being like, we'll have our own agentic consultants.
85
Like, you're an idiot, Simil.
86
Like, you're not even going to use McKinsey.
87
Yeah.
88
You're just going to have.
89
Yeah.
90
I mean, that's actually probably the reality, right?
91
Well, I actually think it's the same observation, right?
92
I think, like, as McKinsey is getting more and more efficient, you know, it's happening also directly within the companies, ultimately, to the point where McKinsey is just completely irrelevant because the access to the technology, unless, counterpoint, by this being deployed throughout McKinsey, there's such a strength of a data moat inside McKinsey for the market.
93
Actually, that's where I was going to get to.
94
I think if I were leading McKinsey, I would say we should have our own agents that run on our own corpus of proprietary information.
95
That's right.
96
You keep the finders up top, make more profit per partner, and you basically sell a co-pilot or agentic McKinsey service to an Android and say, look, you can benefit from our institutional knowledge.
97
And if you want more human involvement, it'll cost more.
98
And if you want just involvement, it'll cost this.
99
I think that all actually makes quite a lot of sense.
100
Now, if you were an entrepreneur, this is fascinating.
101
Would you try to go build something to go sell to the McKinsey's, BCGs, Banes of the world?
102
Or would you try to build your own native consultancy?
103
I mean, I think it would be very hard because you don't have any institutional knowledge to build a whole.
104
Yeah, I think that's the risk.
105
You'd probably try to find a way to sell some data to McKinsey.
106
Anyway, it's fascinating.
107
In a world where AI handles most of the grinding and minding, the org chart doesn't just flatten, it fragments.
108
The institutions that survive will be the ones that know what not to automate.
109
Will EI eat its way to the top of the org chart?
110
And what types of consumer products will remain defensible from AI?
111
Another field where people are wondering how AI will come for their jobs is in the arts.
112
The impact of Gen AI on artists and creativity has been profound, just as other prior tools and new technologies have.
113
But the question remains: what is the best way for artists to leverage AI to enhance their creative process?
114
I hosted a QA with Mikey Schulman, co-founder of AI music startup Suno, who addressed this question directly in a way that I found fascinating.
115
I think this is a really good question.
116
This is a kind of a long arc, I would say, in making music.
117
You know, technology has been part of making music for hundreds of years.
118
In general, all of the technological advances that happen make it easier to make music, make more people able to make music, make more music out there, and are actually quite beneficial for music in general.
119
You know, I can tell you that I know one person who is a songwriter who had a lull in creativity.
120
And after finding Suno, it went from maybe making 50 songs a year to making 500 songs a year.
121
And most of these songs maybe don't see the light of day, but it's an unlock in terms of creativity.
122
So I think on the whole, it's quite obviously all of these technologies are good things.
123
It's about how you use them.
124
I think I'm a firm believer that in general, AI and most technologies are neutral.
125
There are good uses and bad uses.
126
And so we focus on building the good ones.
127
That's fascinating.
128
The 50 to 500 kind of reminds me of how a lot of writers are getting value from LLMs as thought partners, right?
129
For fleshing out a report or a thesis or a creative piece of writing.
130
It's like it's somebody you can bounce an idea off of, right?
131
And have a conversation with.
132
It's in every domain.
133
And it's a little cliche to say co-pilot, but you see this in everything from code, engineers writing code.
134
Now you can have a co-pilot that can help you do it.
135
And these co-pilots can make code for you.
136
They can check code for you.
137
When you are writing an email, you can have something that writes the email or rephrases the email or checks the email somehow.
138
If you are writing a script for a movie, you can have help there either in checking something or rewriting something.
139
Or, hell, I just come and I'm blocked and I just need to see some weird ideas.
140
And I think in general, just increasing the amount of weird content that is out there is actually just really good for human creativity.
141
And these things are amazing at that.
142
We talk a lot about co-pilots, but maybe AI is more like a creative partner, the tool that helps you move past the blank page.
143
Not everyone will use it well, but those who do, they might just out-create everyone else.
144
Then there's medicine, maybe the clearest example of AI's potential to separate routine from real work.
145
Doctors will be able to spend less time tackling paperwork and more time talking with patients.
146
Hospitals will get more value out of these very expensive specialists.
147
Highly personalized medical interventions will finally become commonplace.
148
At the same time, the regulatory landscape is complex and adoption is far from assured.
149
I recently spoke about this with Anu Etluru, founder, author, and angel investor in social utility startups.
150
And in addition to her work with companies like Clubhouse and Slang, Anu is also a licensed physician.
151
And though she no longer practices, she says she still has a soft spot for consumer health care and is bullish on the potential for AI to improve health outcomes and how AI can change what it means to be a doctor.
152
Do you, even though you're not practicing, do you think much about the future of medicine and healthcare and personal health as a result of AI?
153
Yeah, I do in an abstract sense.
154
From the like human level, I think AI is going to be great for understanding of diseases that we only have a marginal understanding of today.
155
I think it'll be very useful for rare diseases that we haven't had enough of a population to really and enough of an economic interest to really be able to fund often.
156
So I think the long tail of health will get better as well.
157
Scientific research, this upstream part is going to get very good very fast.
158
And there's already, you know, a lot of things that are suggesting that.
159
I think one of the Montreupus a Nobel Prize winner this past year or something was related kind of to this movement in this direction.
160
Broadly, I'm very optimistic about what it's going to do for our ability to understand health, to understand diagnosing it, and somewhat to understand like treating it.
161
I think that's harder than the actual understanding of the problem, which will get a lot better.
162
I think on the side of like being a doctor as a profession, there are a lot of things that are going to change.
163
Some welcome, some not, you know, depending on which side you're on.
164
Like what?
165
So overall, I would say that I think AI is going to make a lot of knowledge work, which I would consider historically like doctors, lawyers, a lot of that to be, in many cases, much more like a trade profession.
166
Historically, you know, we think of trades as kind of like the they require less education and are more physical in nature than the non-trade professions, which tend to require far more education and tend to be more cerebral in nature.
167
And I think the mix of that will shift a little bit in a world where AI is doing a lot of the kind of like information gathering with more information than we would have had before.
168
A lot of the computation, a lot of the analysis of like, you know, all the differential diagnoses, the probabilities, the, you know, the likelihood of a therapy to work, and in particular for a specific person in terms of personalization.
169
So I think there will be a lot more data given to us by AI or whatever we want to call that container that will then be kind of assessed and applied by physicians.
170
And so from that perspective, physicians will do less of that cognitive work themselves.
171
And also because we're going to learn so much more, it's going to be impossible for humans to learn all of that, like as rote memory and then compute all of that.
172
So I just think that it'll become a little bit more trade-like in the sense that a lot of what you're doing is more the implementation aspect as opposed to like a holistic assessment independently.
173
It's almost like more like service-oriented, and yeah, I mean, like, because you are doing, you know, the relational aspects will become much more important, especially like, I mean, this is a great thing.
174
Scribe, like AI scribe, or whatever, and all that stuff, I think, is going to come in, which will relieve like the burden of documentation, which has been like terrifying for physicians for the past 10 years at least, but probably like 15 or more.
175
It's terrifying that the burden of documentation has gone up.
176
They have to document more.
177
They don't want to have to do that.
178
Right, it takes a lot of time more than anything.
179
I mean, I think, and there's always argument about, oh, my doctor's never talking to me.
180
Well, it's because they're documenting most of the time because they have to for like insurance purposes and for medical legal purposes.
181
Um, so AI will do really good things in terms of reducing the burden of those things, but it'll also provide tools that'll offload some of the cognitive stuff they're doing.
182
It's like autonomous vehicles or something with healthcare and with like physical health and safety in general.
183
We are very skittish about adopting tools if there is like one death that we're going to see to that.
184
And so, whether it's autonomous vehicles or healthcare, I think the same thing will apply.
185
So, I do think this is like somewhat of a long arc of implementation, but I do think over the long term, yes, it'll become much more like a service profession.
186
And that's not necessarily bad, but it'll change a lot of dynamics.
187
So, we started like zoomed out, then we've talked about interaction with the physician becomes more assisted, becomes more of a service.
188
Is there a world in which the human doctor goes away for 80% of interactions in the near future?
189
Like, maybe just much more simply, like, how soon until we have the AI doctor on our phones that we're interacting with for, you know, 80 to 90 percent of most times we would have previously scheduled an appointment with our physician.
190
I might argue we already have the AI doctor on our phone.
191
Yeah.
192
You know, that's ChatGPT, or that's Dr.
193
Google, or that's Dr.
194
Well, Dr.
195
Google is pretty bad.
196
So I would say, yeah, ChatGPT or whatever the future model of it, or, you know, pick your LLM that's going to become specialized for this thing.
197
I would argue we already have that in the sense of the decision points are really when do you choose to seek healthcare within the healthcare system?
198
And the system today is a people-driven system.
199
So the question becomes like when will some authority say it's okay for you to use this chat bot or LLM instead of going in to see a physician.
200
That can happen culturally though, right?
201
I mean, that doesn't have to happen through the rubber stamp.
202
Culturally, I think it is already slowly happening for very low acuity, or, you know, as generally talk about acuity of like how serious, severe, like for triaging, like low acuity things like a cold or do I have strep throat?
203
I think right now what it's actually doing is telling you on some probability basis, should you go seek care?
204
And I think that actually people have been working that for a long time, but it's just AI is going to be so much better now.
205
It really just seems like the only thing stopping it is nobody's just built, nobody's built the great consumer product yet.
206
Somebody can do it.
207
And I think what they, what they will have to do is kind of what telehealth did, which is have experts or credible, trusted people who are in on kind of quality control or something for this product.
208
Like it can't just be a bunch of Silicon Valley, you know, and some of this is optics and trust-based, and trust is very kind of fluid.
209
It's obviously not very scientific.
210
And somebody probably will do it.
211
I don't know why someone has not done it yet, or maybe somebody is working on it.
212
I'm not skeptical about the value to the user.
213
I am a little skittish on the ability for this to be executed as a consumer product.
214
It will take the right team that knows both sides and cares about both sides, and usually it's just one.
215
Anu pointed out something important.
216
In the AI era, knowledge work becomes more like a trait.
217
AI will handle the information gathering and the analysis.
218
Doctors, lawyers, consultants, they'll do less of the deep cognitive lifting and more of the human-to-human work.
219
And that's not a loss, that's an upgrade.
220
So, yes, we may already have a doctor in our pocket.
221
And with the right design and guardrails, that future isn't as far off as it seems.
222
To close out the episode, I spoke with Marissa Mayer, former Google product lead, Yahoo CEO, and now the founder and CEO of Sunshine.
223
The company's first product, Shine, is reinventing contact management and photo sharing using AI.
224
Marissa has been on the front lines of multiple platform shifts.
225
So when she talks about how generative AI is reshaping user behavior and how companies need to respond, it's worth listening.
226
Her message is part prediction, part warning.
227
AI won't just change what gets built, but how we build, who we hire, and which roles still matter.
228
And while most leaders are still figuring out how to use AI to get ahead, Marissa says the real question is: how do you avoid being left behind?
229
You've been involved with some iconic companies and products.
230
AI, at least from my perspective, seems to be sort of resetting the playing field a little bit.
231
It's not only like creating a new type of product opportunity to be built, it's also creating new opportunities inside of organizations.
232
How do we staff teams?
233
How do we build processes and actually get these products made?
234
Maybe starting at the team level.
235
How do you think teams are sort of going to evolve as a result of AI?
236
Will we value engineering more?
237
Will we value product management more?
238
If product managers can just generate code through natural language, how are sort of teams and team building strategies going to change in the coming years?
239
I think that what's happening on a product level with AI is often the most powerful technologies change end user behavior and they change end user expectations.
240
And we saw that in the early days of search, right?
241
All the search engines were kind of the same.
242
They could all kind of get things done.
243
They weren't incredibly efficient.
244
And then Google came along and had just better answers, caused people to search more in Google, caused them to search way more.
245
There's way more internet search being done today than there was before Google existed.
246
And, you know, it basically caused people to ultimately change their behavior in terms of how often they searched, how they searched, what they searched for, and also changed their expectation in terms of what they got.
247
And I think that what you're seeing now across many forms of generative AI is whether it's chatting to get a better understanding of a problem, get editing help, get visual help in visualizing something and creating an image or a graphic.
248
The way that you can do that, the speed with which you can do it, and the ease with which you can do it, is going to cause users' behaviors to change and their expectation to change.
249
So, I think that ultimately, the groups that will be valued most in organizations as a result of this change will be the ones that can adapt, be most insightful about those user behavior changes and expectations and adapt most quickly and respond.
250
So, I don't necessarily know that it will be a functional revaluing across companies, but I definitely think the companies that respond to these user behavior and expectation changes are the ones that are going to win.
251
So, one of the things that makes me think of an area of business right now that to me on the surface looks potentially highly sort of disruptible, and that is consulting, right?
252
Where you've got these huge teams of people that are being paid and billed hourly to do this type of manual work that potentially could be replicated by agents.
253
I'm certainly very curious to see if large consulting firms sort of adapt and embrace the way you're talking about or sort of try to hold on to existing business models and structures.
254
Yeah, I'm curious what your thoughts are on like the types of businesses that you think will be most quick to adapt this versus the ones that will be sort of resistant.
255
Well, not surprisingly, I think that technology-rich industries are ones that are going to adopt this most quickly and readily.
256
So, I wouldn't be surprised if we see consulting actually, you know, they generally do use technology effectively and study it and it's impacted on HR and office and workflows, you know, as part of what they do.
257
So, I wouldn't be surprised if they actually do well in terms of adopting it.
258
But I think that anywhere where there's a tension between the new way of doing things and the new way your customer wants to do things and the tension with that and your existing business model, I think those are the companies that have really hard choices to make because they can probably cling to that existing business model a la your consulting example and make more money in the short term, but in the long term, they're really mortgaging their future.
259
So I think that, you know, right now, most companies need to be thinking about, and, you know, most people working in those companies need to be thinking about how can AI make me better and faster at my job.
260
And there's all kinds of people who are doing studies now in terms of, you know, who does better?
261
You know, the consultant, the doctor, the lawyer, or the AI, right?
262
If you go to the AI suggestions.
263
And there certainly are some professions and some cases where the AI is outperforming the people.
264
And if the people attempt to actually edit what it's suggesting, things only get worse.
265
But, you know, it's early days and there's anecdotes right now that cut both ways.
266
Yeah.
267
Yeah.
268
I saw some, I think it was a New York Times article just like two days ago that said it compared sort of doctors on their own versus doctors with AI versus just AI.
269
And I thought it was going to be doctors and AI were the most effective.
270
And it actually, according to this study, I have no idea how accurate it is.
271
It was just the AI that was that was the most effective or I don't know however they were measuring it, which kind of blew my mind a little bit.
272
I've seen that study and I've seen some in a few other industries as well.
273
And so, you know, those industries where the AI solo can outperform and the value that the people are adding could be negative, which is kind of the point that that makes.
274
And I don't necessarily think that it was a big enough sample study to say that conclusively, but sample size in the study.
275
But I think that it definitely is thought-provoking and it does make you realize that where you should be spending your time and where we can add value versus where the AI should be adding the value is something that companies are going to have to be strategic about.
276
In short, organizations that respond quickly to shifts in consumer behavior will thrive.
277
Companies that cling to old business models might succeed in the short term, but they're mortgaging their futures.
278
It's probably too early to know what AI is fully capable of and what burdens it may relieve us of, whether we want it or not.
279
Still, I think we can draw a few general conclusions.
280
Number one, focus on your unique institutional knowledge.
281
Two, seek out ways AI can enhance your existing process.
282
And three, pay attention to user expectations.
283
That's a wrap for this episode of Generative Now.
284
Thank you so much for joining me.
285
If you liked this episode, please do us a favor and rate and review the show on Spotify and Apple Podcasts.
286
And if you want to learn more, follow Lightspeed at Lightspeed VP on YouTube, X, LinkedIn, and everywhere else.
287
Generative Now is produced by Lightspeed in partnership with pod people.
288
I am Michael McNano and we will be back next week.
289
See you then.