--- METADATA START ---
Show: The AI Daily Brief (Formerly The AI Breakdown): Artificial Intelligence News and Analysis
Episode: Inside the White-Hot AI Rollup…
Host: Unknown
GUESTS: None 
Guests: None
Source URL: https://podcasts.apple.com/us/podcast/inside-the-white-hot-ai-rollup-trend/id1680633614?i=1000711094367
--- METADATA END ---

1
Today on the AI Daily Brief, are AI roll-ups by PE firms, VCs, and startups the hot new trend or a bubble waiting to burst?
2
Before that, in the headlines, Apple has apparently decided to just stop competing for AI altogether.
3
The AI Daily Brief is a daily podcast and video about the most important news and discussions in AI.
4
Hello, friends.
5
Quick little announcements in the credit section before we get into today's show.
6
First of all, big thank you to today's sponsors.
7
The show is presented today by KPMG, Blitzy.com, Vanta, and Agency.
8
Also, to get an ad-free version of the show, go to patreon.com/slash AI Daily Brief.
9
We've just added a $3 ad-free tier, trying to keep it cost-effective for those of you for whom that is the only thing you're looking for.
10
With that out of the way, let's get into today's topic, starting with whatever the heck is going on at Apple.
11
Welcome back to the AI Daily Brief Headlines Edition, all the daily AI news you need in around five minutes.
12
Apple continues its just honestly astounding dereliction of any sort of coherent AI strategy or philosophy in anything approaching the urgency of the moment.
13
Indeed, the company appears to be taking a gap here on AI as they head into next week's Worldwide Developer Conference.
14
Bloomberg's Mark German, who is basically the most informed mainstream media reporter on Apple, reports that next week's developer conference will forego any major AI announcements.
15
Instead, the headline reveals seems to be a new naming convention for their operating systems.
16
The company will reportedly skip from iOS 19 to iOS 26 in order to align with the year of release.
17
Last year's conference, of course, featured Apple finally wading into the AI game in some way.
18
Of course, it being Apple, they had to give it a different name, Apple Intelligence.
19
Since then, though, things have not gone well.
20
In fact, it's been a steady stream of lackluster performance, missing features, not getting right the one obvious necessary thing, which is an overhaul of Siri.
21
German writes: Apple needs a comeback, but that probably won't.
22
Others familiar with the company's planned announcements worry they could make Apple's shortcomings even more obvious.
23
Guerman continued, in the months following WWDC last year, it was evident that features like writing tools, Genmoji, and priority notifications, while helpful, didn't match the innovations coming from Apple's competitors.
24
And the new Siri voice assistant meant to sit at the center of Apple intelligence was delayed indefinitely after running into a series of engineering and testing snags.
25
Now, if there is anything that anyone is sort of excited about, it's that it does appear that Apple plans on opening its AI models to developers.
26
German again writes, the iPhone maker is working on a software development kit and related frameworks that will let outsiders build AI features based on the LLMs that the company uses for Apple intelligence.
27
Now, it's not like all the other big tech companies have had an easy go of it.
28
In 2023 and early 2024, Google was really rocked back on its heels as well.
29
For most of 2023, all any of us were talking about was how Google could possibly be losing the battle to OpenAI after being a leader in AI for so long.
30
And then at the beginning of 2024, they had the rushed launch of Gemini, feeling like they clearly needed to catch up to OpenAI.
31
And we had the overly woke, historically inaccurate image generation, i.e., black Nazis.
32
We also had the suggestion of putting glue on pizza.
33
And yet, in the years since, Google has come surging back.
34
They are a major player again.
35
They're constantly competing for the very top end of all the benchmarks.
36
And there's genuine excitement around the ecosystem.
37
And I think the difference that it shows is that while yes, Google was being out-competed for some period of time, they never didn't have a commitment to or a big vision for artificial intelligence.
38
In fact, if anything, their AI approach was too sprawling, too distributed.
39
Apple, meanwhile, it doesn't even seem like they've actually committed to this thing.
40
Now, look, ultimately, the company has a ton of goodwill.
41
There are still a huge number of people who are incredibly loath to switch off Apple hardware.
42
I'm one of them.
43
I think there's a world in which they thought about this very intentionally and decided to sit the first couple of years out until they better understood what real consumer demand was going to look like for AI.
44
The problem, in other words, is not just that they're not doing enough, it's that they don't have any vision of what they're supposed to be doing in the first place.
45
German concludes: The big question is how long Apple can last with a go-slow approach to AI.
46
The company is aiming to show real progress next year, but the AI race only seems to be accelerating each month.
47
It's clear Apple needs to move faster, make bigger beta, and release bolder features, or risk eventually being lapped by its rivals.
48
Savatar John Tiani summed up the feelings of many when they tweeted, Damn, AI light or no AI sounds like a death sentence for Apple at this stage.
49
Next up, Elon Musk's XAI is looking for another huge tranche of funding.
50
The Financial Times reports that XAI is launching a $300 million share sale that would value the company at $113 billion.
51
Now, this is a secondary offer, which is intended to allow staff to sell shares to new investors.
52
If successful, it would validate the pricing that came during XAI's all-stock acquisition of social media platform X back in March, which of course appeared to be negotiated between Elon Musk and himself.
53
That deal attributed a $33 billion valuation to Twitter, an $11 billion drop from the price Musk paid in October 2022, and an $80 billion valuation to XAI, which was a 75% markup from the Series C last December.
54
Now, the last fundraising news we had was back in April when Bloomberg reported that XAI was.
55
If that is still in the works and if it's completed, it would be easily one of the largest venture rounds in history.
56
Shortly following reports of the smaller tender offer, Bloomberg also broke the news that Morgan Stanley is shopping around a $5 billion debt package for XAI.
57
The package was launched on Monday, according to sources, with proceeds going to general corporate purposes.
58
The deal is reportedly being priced with double-digit interest rates, and commitments are due within two weeks.
59
For Musk's part, he is back full-time in his entrepreneurial endeavors.
60
After leaving the administration last week, he posted, back to spending 24-7 at work and sleeping in conference server factory rooms.
61
I must be super focused on X, XAI, and Tesla plus Starship launched next week as we have critical technologies rolling out.
62
Lastly, today, an update on the idea of how AI is going to impact consulting.
63
McKinsey's AI has apparently reached the point where it can do the work of junior employees.
64
Bloomberg reports that McKinsey's in-house AI called Lilly has now reached the point where it's drafting proposals and preparing PowerPoint slides for the firm's consultants.
65
Lilly has been trained to create PowerPoint slides from single prompts and can ensure reports are written according to the firm's corporate style guide.
66
Over 75% of the firm's employees are now using the tool on a monthly ongoing basis.
67
Kate Smage, the company's global leader of technology and AI, said, Do we need armies of business analysts creating PowerPoints?
68
No, the technology could do that.
69
Is that a bad thing?
70
No, that's a great thing.
71
It's not necessarily that I'm going to have fewer of them, but they're going to be doing things that are more valuable to our clients.
72
Bloomberg notes, however, that McKinsey does in fact have fewer of them, with the firm's headcount dropping by 10% since the beginning of 2024.
73
This was in fact the largest reduction in staff in the firm's history, with McKinsey insisting the reduction was due to increased attrition and a lack of replacement, rather than a gigantic wave of layoffs.
74
However, for now, that is going to do it for today's AI Daily Brief Headlines Edition.
75
Next up, the main episode.
76
Today's episode is brought to you by KPMG.
77
In today's fiercely competitive market, unlocking AI's potential could help give you a competitive edge, foster growth, and drive new value.
78
But here's the key: you don't need an AI strategy.
79
You need to embed AI into your overall business strategy to truly power it up.
80
KPMG can show you how to integrate AI and AI agents into your business strategy in a way that truly works and is built on trusted AI principles and platforms.
81
Check out Real Stories from KPMG to hear how AI is driving success with its clients at www.kpmg.us/slash AI.
82
Again, that's www.kpmg.us/slash AI.
83
Today's episode is brought to you by Blitzy, the Enterprise Autonomous Software Development Platform with Infinite Code Context, which, if you don't know exactly what that means yet, do not worry, we're going to explain, and it's awesome.
84
So, Blitzy is used alongside your favorite coding co-pilot as your batch software development platform for the enterprise, and it's meant for those who are seeking dramatic development acceleration on large-scale code bases.
85
Traditional co-pilots help developers with line-by-line completions and snippets, but Blitzy works ahead of the IDE, first documenting your entire code base, then deploying more than 3,000 coordinated AI agents working in parallel to batch-build millions of lines of high-quality code for large-scale software projects.
86
So, then, whether it's code-based refactors, modernizations, or bulk development of your product roadmap, the whole idea of Blitzy is to provide enterprises dramatic velocity improvement.
87
To put it in simpler terms, for every line of code eventually provided to the human engineering team, Blitzy will have written it hundreds times.
88
Projects then that would normally require dozens of developers working for months can now be completed with a fraction of the team in weeks, empowering organizations to dramatically shorten development cycles and bring products to market faster than ever.
89
If your enterprise is looking to accelerate software development, whether it's large-scale modernization, refactoring, or just increasing the rate of your STLC, contact Blitzy at blitzy.com, that's B-L-I-T-Z-Y dot com, to book a custom demo or just press get started and start using the product right away.
90
Today's episode is brought to you by Vanta.
91
Vanta is a trust management platform that helps businesses automate security and compliance, enabling them to demonstrate strong security practices and scale.
92
In today's business landscape, businesses can't just claim security, they have to prove it.
93
Achieving compliance with a framework like SOC2, ISO 27001, HIPAA, GDPR, and more is how businesses can demonstrate strong security practices.
94
And we see how much this matters every time we connect enterprises with agent services providers at Super Intelligent.
95
Many of these compliance frameworks are simply not negotiable for enterprises.
96
The problem is that navigating security and compliance is time-consuming and complicated.
97
It can take months of work and use up valuable time and resources.
98
Vanta makes it easy and faster by automating compliance across 35 plus frameworks.
99
It gets you audit ready in weeks instead of months and saves you up to 85% of associated costs.
100
In fact, a recent IDC white paper found that Vanta customers achieve $535,000 per year in benefits, and the platform pays for itself in just three months.
101
The proof is in the numbers.
102
More than 10,000 global companies trust Vanta, including Atlassian, Cora, and more.
103
For a limited time, listeners get $1,000 off at vanta.com slash NLW.
104
Today's episode is brought to you by Agency, an open source collective for interagent collaboration.
105
Agents are, of course, the most important theme of the moment right now, not only on this show, but I think for businesses everywhere.
106
And part of that is the expanded scope of what agents are starting to be able to do.
107
While single agents can handle specific tasks, the real power comes when specialized agents collaborate to solve complex problems.
108
However, right now there is no standardized infrastructure for these agents to discover, communicate with, and work alongside one another.
109
That's where Agency, spelled AGNTCY, comes in.
110
Agency is an open source collective building the internet of agents, a global collaboration layer where AI agents can work together.
111
It will connect systems across vendors and frameworks, solving the biggest problems of discovery, interoperability, and scalability for enterprises.
112
With contributors like Cisco, Crew AI, Langchain, and MongoDB, Agency is breaking down silos and building the future of interoperable AI.
113
Shape the future of enterprise innovation, visit agency.org to explore use cases now.
114
That's agntcy.org.
115
Welcome back to the AI Daily Brief.
116
Today we are talking about a trend which is getting a lot of airtime these days, which is this idea of AI roll-ups, or effectively, venture capitalists or PE firms moving away from traditional venture-style investments to instead acquire boring mature companies and give them an AI makeover.
117
Now, this is in the ether in a huge way right now.
118
We're going to go through about a half dozen examples of stories that have been written about this exact approach over just the last month or two.
119
Growth VC Stahil Pawa writes: Wow, just a few weeks after launching this open database of AI-powered roll-ups, the number of companies in the list have doubled.
120
Lots of activities in this space.
121
And indeed, you can see on this list where these things are happening, what sector they're in, and so on and so forth.
122
But the important thing to note here is that this is actually, I believe, a group of trends bundled into one.
123
Roll-ups and private equity are nothing new.
124
Historically, the private equity version of this was to corner the market in a certain location or within a certain vertical or both, and then consolidate all the companies to benefit from scale and systemization.
125
Think, for example, buying up all the dentist offices in Phoenix and consolidating the accounting, bookkeeping, and data systems.
126
Now, in previous generations, this tended to involve upgrading decades-old software to more modern SaaS offerings.
127
And this started to become more of the subject of conversation among smaller investors and operators during and just following the pandemic.
128
You saw people like finance influencer Cody Sanchez start to talk about buying boring businesses and arguing that potentially a better path to entrepreneurial success was to buy businesses that were already working and then upgrade and modernize them, reinvest the profits in similar operations, and so on and so forth.
129
Now, the historic PE version of this strategy, while certainly popular with trillions in assets under management for this type of deal, there is also the perception of a lot of downfalls.
130
Sometimes PE firms will load up companies with stifling amounts of debt.
131
Another pitfall is installing managers with no experience.
132
And sometimes in the past, firms have simply overestimated just how much profit could be gained by adding things like social media advertising.
133
So, this is the PE side of the background that AI comes into.
134
However, that's not the only side of this trend.
135
We've also seen venture capital undergoing what is now a half-decade or longer transformation.
136
First of all, the boundaries between what a VC firm is and a PE firm is have certainly gotten blurrier.
137
You might remember all the way back in 2019, Andreessen Horowitz made a ton of news by becoming a registered investment advisor, allowing it to deploy capital in more non-traditional ways than just VC.
138
Back at the time, TechCrunch pointed out that it was far from alone in this shift.
139
SoftBank, Foundry Group, and General Catalyst were all traditional firms that they pointed to taking on some sort of version of this or some different type of flexibility in terms of their capital structure.
140
Now, post-COVID, VC has been changing even more.
141
This was an asset class that was completely washing capital during the Zerp era generally post-GFC, but especially in the COVID period, as interest rates started to climb, capital flooded back out of the asset class.
142
And because of the long-duration nature of the field, we're only just starting to see some of the impact now.
143
One of the areas where you're seeing this take place is as venture firms get ready to raise their next fund, they are often finding it much more difficult to find willing LPs than they did before.
144
And of course, it's not just that the broader capital markets have changed, it's also that liquidity is extremely low right now.
145
We haven't had a fertile IPO market for some time.
146
MA has been depressed.
147
And that's why you're seeing things like secondary markets where venture capitalists sell their illiquid stakes in companies before there's actually a liquidity event in order to have some money to reinvest.
148
Now, if that's the PE side of the trend and some of the things going on in venture capital more broadly, there is, of course, another bottoms-up aspect of this, which is the way that AI is changing the economics of entrepreneurship in general.
149
In short, in the same way that AI is poised to make everyone across all dimensions of business more efficient, entrepreneurs in small companies and startups are some of the areas where we're seeing the most extreme examples of that, or at least where we're seeing people experiment the most aggressively with just how far they can stretch AI and agentic systems as opposed to building out big teams.
150
You have this big, glorious notion of the eventual one-person unicorn, which is something that Sam Altman has talked about.
151
More practically, right now, though, it's like every other week some company shows how much it's growing with how few people.
152
Text-to-code app Lovable raced to nearly 10,000 subscribers and 4 million ARR in their first four weeks back in December of last year, and just a couple of days ago crossed 60 million ARR, with their growth rate increasing 50% in just the week previous to that.
153
Now, companies like Lovable are still raising big rounds because of the intensity of the competition in the space that they're competing in.
154
But more broadly, there are a lot of companies that are asking themselves if they really need traditional venture capital.
155
You might have heard of this phenomenon of seed strapping.
156
It's basically something between traditional Silicon Valley investment and bootstrapping, where founders design themselves to raise a single round at the beginning of the company and then use that to get to profitability and grow on their own terms without the pressures that come with venture capital.
157
A few years ago, this might have been dismissed by VCs as only for companies that wouldn't really be.
158
But increasingly, this is actually competing with venture capital as a strategy, even among some very desirable companies.
159
So, this is the landscape into which this AI roll-up strategy comes.
160
And there are a lot of versions of this that are happening out there right now.
161
Back in January, the Wall Street Journal published a piece about the trend called Now Wanted in Silicon Valley: Ho-Hum Businesses with Thin Profit Margins.
162
One of the stories they focus on is that of General Catalyst, who had raised $1.5 billion for a version of this strategy.
163
At the time of this article back in January, GC had invested in around seven startups that were pursuing some version of AI-enabled roll-ups.
164
One of the companies they invested in was called Long Lake Management Holdings, a now 18-month-old startup that raised around $600 million and had acquired about a dozen companies collectively employing 1,400 workers.
165
Another venture firm that's exploring this strategy is Thrive.
166
In April of this year, the New York Times profiled its new division called Thrive Holdings, which was at the time closing about a billion dollars with this sort of idea of developing and buying companies in mind.
167
Parent company Thrive Capital had backed both Long Lake, the company we were just talking about, and it had also bought a more traditional accounting company called Crete as well.
168
Now, one of the things that it seemed like Thrive was trying to do differently was to structure its holdings division so that it didn't need to just turn them around and sell them off in the way a traditional PE firm would.
169
Wrote the New York Times, unlike roll-ups done by Wall Street mainstays like PE firms, the venture firms are targeting younger companies.
170
Thrive Holdings also plans to focus heavily on the operations of the businesses it buys, in part by using a team of software engineers and Thrive's ties to AI companies like OpenAI.
171
Thrive Holdings also differs from other venture firms via its setup as a so-called holding company that can own stakes in companies for a long time, even forever, according to one of the people with knowledge of the company.
172
And this trend seems to be accelerating now.
173
Earlier this week, the Information reported that former Microsoft venture head Chris Young had jumped on board the theme, which they referred to as one of the most popular private investing strategies of the last year.
174
They write, Chris Young, who led Microsoft's ventures and acquisitions team for five years, has told former colleagues he's planning a private equity fund focused on buying companies, combining them, and using AI to make their operations more efficient.
175
Young's plans underscore investors' belief that AI will play a key role in transforming businesses by replacing or assisting employees with chatbots or by speeding up recruiting processes with automated interviews and skills assessments.
176
Now, interestingly, this piece from the information calls out both sides of the trends here.
177
On the one hand, the challenge of traditional markets, and on the other hand, the opportunity of AI.
178
Obviously, the catalyst for all this activity is, on the one hand, the opportunity that AI represents to win new efficiencies and to create new paths for growth.
179
But there is also the macro dimension here.
180
They quote Mark Bargava from General Catalyst, who says: if IPOs and markets are maybe locked, you want to control your own destiny.
181
If you're a profitable company creating free cash flow, you do control your own destiny.
182
Still, another firm that's pursuing this strategy, which we've gotten news of in the last couple of weeks, is Coastla Ventures.
183
Saumir Kahl, a general partner at Coastla, told TechCrunch, I think we'll look at a few of these types of opportunities.
184
And whereas some of these other firms seem to be going whole hog into this strategy, Coastla seems to be taking a bit more of a dip-your-toe-in approach.
185
Cole explained that the firm wants to do a few deals to assess if such investments deliver strong returns for the firm before possibly raising money for some kind of vehicle specifically aimed at this investment strategy.
186
And interestingly, that piece brings in another dimension of this.
187
Again, from TechCrunch, quote: This PE-flavored approach could be a surprising benefit to the multitudes of AI startups VCs are backing.
188
If a VC marries old businesses with new technology, AI startups wanting to serve these industries would essentially gain instant access to large established clients.
189
According to Call, such access would be helpful when new startups have difficulty securing customers of their own.
190
With the rapid rate of change in AI, the number of startups pouring into the market, and the historically long sales cycle involved in selling to enterprises, such difficulties apply to many AI startups.
191
One of the things that we see all the time is exactly this sort of three-player access between startups on the one hand who can provide services that transform businesses, on the other side, the businesses who are waiting to be transformed, and in the middle, a PE firm, or now a VC or an investor playing the role of PE firm, facilitating the interaction.
192
One of the biggest buyers so far of custom AI design services from the big dev shops and other next generation of systems integrators are PE firms looking to roll this sort of change out across their portfolios.
193
One more investor pursuing this strategy that's worth mentioning, because the story just came out a couple of days ago, AI super angel Elad Gill is also exploring this AI roll-up strategy.
194
Said Gill, it just seems so obvious.
195
This type of generative AI is very good at understanding language, manipulating language, manipulating text, producing text.
196
And that's audio, that's video, that includes coding, sales, outreach, and different back office processes.
197
If you can effectively transform some of these repetitive tasks into software, you can increase the margins dramatically and create very different types of businesses.
198
He added, the math is particularly compelling if one owns the businesses outright.
199
If you own the asset, you can transform it much more rapidly than if you're just selling software as a vendor.
200
And because you take the gross margin of a company from, say, 10% to 40%, that's a huge lift.
201
Suddenly, you can buy other companies at a higher price than anyone else because you have that increased cash flow per business.
202
You have enormous leverage on the business on a relative basis, so you can do roll-ups in ways that others can't.
203
Now, one thing that this piece points out is the question of who's the right type of actor to lead this.
204
TC writes: Part of the challenge with roll-ups is finding the right team composition, ideally including a strong technologist along with someone who is very strong in PE.
205
And as Gil noted, those things don't go hand in hand.
206
Gil said that he had met a couple dozen of these teams so far and mostly hadn't invested because of the challenge of finding the right type of leadership.
207
And if you go poke around Twitter at all, this is definitely where the biggest skepticism on this theme is.
208
Perplexity Special Projects Quack writes, As someone who did this for three years and helped raise a $600 million fund for it, I'm incredibly bearish.
209
At face value, the thesis of AI plus existing company equaled multiple and profit margin expansion sounds genius to every VC investor.
210
However, ask any veteran PE investor about operational improvements and internal transformations, and they'll tell you that those founders will burn themselves out trying to transform the company from within.
211
One of the big themes that kept coming up in the comments, and there was a lot of discussion because this post had about 600,000 views, is the idea that the strongest entrepreneurs are always going to just want to build their own companies.
212
When one commenter wrote, change management is non-trivial even without disruptive powers of AI.
213
In such scenarios, building a new company has always scaled far better.
214
Quack responded, remarkable builders will want to build.
215
They accept the gauntlet of going from zero to one.
216
They will not get up ready to tackle 18 months of change management and internal stakeholder dynamics.
217
Any founder that wants to outsource that to a consulting firm is not going to make it.
218
Ultimately, it feels pretty clear that the AIification of private equity is a key trend of the moment.
219
I personally tend to think that this is not a question of if, it's a question of who and how.
220
Who are the right teams to try to transform companies from within?
221
What is the process that actually gets that done?
222
What's the relationship and collaboration between insiders and outsiders?
223
What's the role of the coordinating investor, be it a PE firm or a VC?
224
How much is this supposed to be venture-style startups that are bringing this to market?
225
These are all unanswered questions, ones that I think the market is going to explore over the next couple of years.
226
But from where I'm sitting, the genie is completely out of the bottle when it comes to the idea that the next great frontier in private equity or private equity-like activities is AI-related transformation.
227
In fact, I think that we are going to see the efficiency mindset and the opportunity mindset that I talk about so often play out in close sequence when it comes to these things.
228
We're going to see a phase one where companies just look to be 30, 40, 50% more efficient as quickly as possible.
229
But then we're going to see companies start to experiment with totally new types of growth opportunities.
230
And that, I think, is where things will get really exciting.
231
In any case, this is a trend that I will definitely continue to watch.
232
If you are interested in it as well, shoot me a note.
233
Let me know what you think about it.
234
For now, that is going to do it for today's AI Daily Brief.
235
Appreciate you listening or watching, as always.
236
And until next time, peace.