--- METADATA START ---
Show: Why Owning 1 Bitc… - Unchained
Episode: Jeff Park
Host: Laura Shin 
Guests: Jeff Park
Source URL: https://podcasts.apple.com/us/podcast/jeff-park-on-why-owning-1-bitcoin-is-young-peoples/id1123922160?i=1000712302503
--- METADATA END ---

1
Bitcoin is the thing that I think most young people have understood to be more worthwhile as a way to store value than how little they can control interest rates.
2
So if you have to buy a home today and your third-year mortgage is six, seven percent plus,, you're priced out of the market.
3
But what?
4
You can buy Bitcoin today.
5
And Bitcoin is likely going to appreciate in value against the exact six to seven percent that the fiat debasement is trying to charge to you to increase the present value of their asset.
6
That Bitcoin is not only a hedge, it's directionally the right thing to own as a way to grow wealth.
7
So it's very acutely obvious to young people the role that Bitcoin can serve.
8
Hi, everyone.
9
Welcome to Unchained, your no-hype resource for all things crypto.
10
I'm your host, Laura Shin.
11
Every episode, we feature our guests and you.
12
We read comments and reviews from listeners.
13
Today, we have some responses to my recent interview with Ryan Watkins on Pump Fund's $1 billion fundraise.
14
On X, Yusuf Gems wrote, I think the race is really good for the sustained growth of Solana.
15
Excited to see how it plays out.
16
Also on X, Jasmine DeFiDev said, $1 billion spent on user experience infrastructure beats marketing spend every time.
17
Seamless onboarding and reliable execution create lasting adoption rather than temporary user spikes.
18
If you want to hear your comment on a show, write a review of the podcast overall or leave a comment on our video on YouTube, Procaster, or X.
19
This is June 10th, 2025 episode of Unchained.
20
One early Bitcoiner sold 30,000 BTC too soon, missing out on over a billion dollars.
21
Don't want to make the same mistake?
22
With Zappo Bank, eligible members can get instant cash without selling their Bitcoin.
23
Check out Zappobank.com/slash Unchained for more.
24
Crypto moves fast.
25
It's why Bitwise launched the weekly CIO memo, a jargon-free summary of what's moving crypto markets written by one of the best in the business, CIO Matt Hogan.
26
Get up to speed in five minutes or less.
27
Check it out at bitwiseinvestments.com/slash CIO memo.
28
Carefully consider the extreme risks associated with crypto before investing.
29
Today's guest is Jeff Park, head of Alpha Strategies at Bitwise.
30
Welcome, Jeff.
31
Hello, Laura.
32
Happy to be back.
33
Happy Monday.
34
Yeah, so listeners who missed last week's show, welcome to part two of the Jeff Park interview.
35
And if you did miss part one, I suggest you go back and listen to it now.
36
We cover Jeff's background, why he believes the traditional 60/40 portfolio is breaking down, the main elements of his radical portfolio theory, which was the bulk of the episode.
37
And Jeff, we need to,, close the loop on some of those.
38
So at the end of your posts about the radical portfolio theory, that,, back when you initially published it, you wrote, on the personal side, three pivotal life events have solidified my conviction that in the need for pathways that build a resilient alternative system.
39
I would love to hear about those three life events.
40
Oh man, we're getting personal now.
41
I love it.
42
Well, I think I can share my journey has been across multiple decades, and there were three life events that solidified this for me.
43
The first that most people know is the global financial crisis.
44
I think having lived through it as your first job out of school, it is jarring and it is incredibly nerve-wracking to imagine everything you ever thought you knew is totally thrown out the window, and there's nothing stable underneath the foundation of what the modern economic miracle is.
45
And so, that to me was a pivotal moment of realization that I have to be more thoughtful, more focused on my own ability to question things and challenge assumptions, institutional behavior, and understand generally where the flow of the direction of the world is going.
46
The second life event, some folks may also be familiar with this.
47
I've spoken to about it in the past in rare circumstances.
48
Is I spent my time growing up in Korea and the United States, and I did live in Korea during the 1997 Asian financial crisis.
49
And so now we're going back in time when I was a youngin, and you have no idea, of course, what anything is.
50
You're just living your best life, you're in second grade, and, one day the country just falls apart.
51
And,, anyone who's lived in emerging markets will know what I'm talking about, but it's it's the world just comes to a sudden halt.
52
And it's not unlike maybe how Americans might have experienced 9-11, but it is this thing that you'll never forget.
53
And when the IMF bailout was essentially being permissioned for Korea, there was a lot of noisy conversations.
54
There were those who believed the United States was being an ally, and then there were those who believed the United States was being extremely predatory about the terms in which they're setting for those loans, in which this is a colonialism.
55
And when you're a young person, you have absolutely no idea what any of these things mean.
56
But what you do remember is you were not in control of your own destiny.
57
Once more, you, as a sovereign, was reliant upon somebody else to navigate the next many years without this bailout.
58
And that shows you the current state of how weaponized global financial systems can be.
59
And in some ways, having lived it in my formative childhood years, I think there was a part of my brain that always knew that,, the social contract of how money works is not as benign and compassionate as people might explain it to be.
60
And now you see the IMF also caught on both sides of different things, whereas,, there'll be poo-poo on Bitcoin and El Salvador adopting it.
61
And then,, you wonder who's running the IMF for what purposes and whose gains.
62
And those things start to come to light.
63
I think more Americans are paying attention to it.
64
But if you're an emerging market citizens, this is very native to you.
65
So to me, that also helped me question the role of the dollar, which is equally important to embrace Bitcoin pretty early on.
66
And then the third thing is a little bit more personal to me, and it's one that I haven't really shared with anybody.
67
It's a deeply private experience, but it's one in which I would say my own family experienced a hyper-politicization that showed you that institutions can sometimes be not neutral and they are in fact very politically driven.
68
And it's not really always going to be about what is morally right or wrong, but what is at different points in times the things that are driving execution for judgment that you also can't control for.
69
And this was a more deeply private experience for me.
70
And without going to specific details, it made me very seriously consider the credible neutrality of some of the institutions that we have in our world, including the courts.
71
And I think you get to see some of this now as judicial warfare has becoming more amplified and heightened here, even in the United States.
72
But I will share with you in Korea that the court being weaponized to fight political battles is nothing new.
73
And once you get to see some of this at a very personal level, then you can also imagine why opting out of that in a way that Bitcoin represents can be an extremely powerful social movement outside of the financial movement.
74
Yeah, a lot of what you're saying there resonates with me in so many ways.
75
First of all, I lived in Indonesia during the time of the financial crisis or the Asian economic flu, it's called.
76
I went in, so I was a recent grad, and my first job out of college was teaching ESL at an international school in Indonesia.
77
And I remember that when I arrived in August, the exchange rate was 2,500 rupiah to $1.
78
And on the worst day, five months later, it was 17,000 rupiah to $1.
79
So,, it collapsed by what is that, to one-seventh of the value it had been.
80
It eventually stabilized at about 11,000.
81
So, what is that?
82 one-fifth of what it had been.
83
But, but, this is something that I understood immediately.
84, it benefited me because I was being paid in US dollars.
85
But,, obviously, there was all kinds of crazy political unrest happening going on, and it affected people that I worked with.
86
And,, even, yeah, people that I just interacted with on a daily basis.
87
So, so I totally understand that.
88
And,, some of the other things that you said about the politicization of different governmental,, processes that are supposed to be democratic or equally applied or neutral or whatever.
89, yeah, this, this is something you have to go back further in my family history to uncover.
90
But yeah, it's something that is part of my family history as well.
91
So these are all themes that I resonate with.
92
And so it makes sense that,, you have a perspective that is primed to think about these moments,, that we discussed in the first interview about,,, what is what is something resistance?
93
What is something compliance?
94
What is the need even to have this resistance component of your portfolio?
95
It's there was this viral series of exchanges with some fintech founder who was tweeting things about how he doesn't see any use case for stables and how crypto has been around and it doesn't solve anything and all this stuff.
96
And,, I saw, so I don't know anything about him.
97
I just saw on his Twitter bio, it says he's based in London.
98
And,, somebody finally put him in his place and showed, oh, okay, so yeah, but if you're in Afghanistan, then this is your reality.
99
And this is how stablecoin, because he was shitting on stable coins in particular.
100
And he, and this person said,, these are how stablecoins help you.
101
And he said, oh, yeah, I guess I hadn't thought about how it works for exotic locations.
102
And I just tweeted back at him,, yeah.
103
And also,, exotic, in Argentina or Turkey, these are places where,, they don't trust their money and they've seen their life savings decimated by holding in their local currency.
104
And so all I'm trying to say is just your experience there, it could truly happen to anyone.
105
And I've experienced it in my family.
106
You experienced it in yours.
107
There's so many people around the globe that have had this experience.
108, a lot of Americans, a lot of people from developing countries, they have not had this experience.
109
That is why I feel I see this hubris so frequently from people who are Americans or Canadians or,, whatever.
110
And they just look down their noses at Bitcoin and crypto and they just are,, oh, but, I try trusted my money.
111
We have, what is the need for this?
112
And it's, yeah,, you're so privileged and you can't even see it.
113
Yes, I think you're absolutely right.
114
And I feel very lucky that I get to experience both an American life and a Korean life to understand the duality of how these worlds can exist.
115
And it's a unique privilege.
116
But the reality is the United States for a long time had a very incredibly almost a naive prosperity where people, I don't think, were aware of where these things were even coming from.
117
And it's only very recently that this Rubicon has been crossed.
118
Because I will say now, this idea of political persecution has become more mainstream.
119
And you've seen it on both sides.
120
You've seen it unfairly to Biden and you've seen it unfairly on Trump.
121
And it's entered regular discourse.
122
But the truth is, if you lived in emerging markets, you understand how fragile these systems of governance can be.
123
And the one thing that I do think is really a watershed moment is the U.S., for the first time, in my opinion, has truly opened their eyes away from this naive prosperity that I think all of us got to enjoy for a long period of time.
124
And it's a movement.
125
It's also why I said, even though the radical portfolio theory is all about,, maximizing your portfolio construction for a better financial outcome to future-proof, it's at the core a social mission.
126
It's why rooting behind the theory is what I wrote up as a manifesto with five bullets.
127
And the first bullet of that manifesto is the idea that the opposite of misinformation is not truth.
128
It's state-controlled information.
129
Because truth in itself is a totally probabilistic exercise.
130
No one has the keys to exert truth in ways that are especially related to social sciences, where you might say there's truth in physical sciences or the ways of the natural world, but once you move beyond that to where the system, the complex system, is human-made, there's no truth.
131
And that's when you have to open your eyes and realize the combating of misinformation in itself is combating centralized, authoritarian, state-controlled information.
132
And all of this social energy has to underpin why we need to explore the radical portfolio and drive the mission.
133
Yeah, Jeff, so this is not something that I talk about too much on the show, but let's just say people will know that I've been dealing with health issues for a very long time.
134
And what you said there resonates with me so much in ways that I will reveal someday, but I can't quite go into right now.
135
So, yeah, I just would say,,, in journalism, we have a saying,, sunlight is the best disinfectant.
136
And that's why I love this profession that I'm in, and I think it's so important.
137
But,, I think for me, I had to learn in the hardest way that I had trust in certain things that I didn't necessarily behoove me to have trust in.
138
And I had to find that out in the hardest ways possible.
139
And so, yes, what you're saying there is very, is something that I at least really resonate with.
140
John,.
141
Oh, go ahead.
142
No, I appreciate the courage you're putting out there to share those experiences.
143
And I think the reality is many of us have those experiences and we're not alone.
144
And this is part of the rising movement of Bitcoin as a philosophy, too, that is driving so much political interest.
145, Bitcoin's not left or right.
146
It's more, I would say, colloquially inside or outside.
147
And it's an outside movement coming in.
148
And that's the thing that you're witnessing, I'm witnessing.
149
And we all have our human experiences that have built up to this exact moment to be where we are.
150
Yes.
151
In our last interview, we left off in our discussion with this theory that you had put forth: that if you were to distill the two components of the radical portfolio theory, resistance and compliance, into two assets, they would be micro strategy preferred shares, SDRK, and Bitcoin.
152
And then you even tweeted that from the date of SDRK's launch at the end of January, this portfolio, this radical portfolio of these two assets would have been up by 18.8%.
153
And during the same time, the SP 500 index and the Bloomberg U.S.
154
Treasury total return, which would be stand-ins for the traditional 60-40 portfolio, declined by 0.7%.
155
So I just wondered, this is a small sample size.
156
And yeah, it looks some early vindication for your theory.
157
But I'm sure, there's probably, at least this is my opinion, there's somewhat of a bubble in the Bitcoin Treasury companies world.
158, maybe STRK, you're saying, is immune to that.
159
I don't know.
160
But I would just would be curious to hear,,, why you think you had the performance that you did and any caveats you would want to make about that performance.
161
Yeah, absolutely.
162
You're absolutely right.
163
It's a short window.
164
Anything could happen, and we have to keep an eye on it.
165
And by the way, most people should hopefully diversify more than two assets.
166
So I would highly encourage that people seek diversification outside of the two-pronged approach.
167
And of course, none of this is financial advice.
168
But the core ethos I'm trying to hit upon here is there's a world of compliance and a world of resistance.
169
And to me, Bitcoin is resistance.
170
You must own it in its native form factor, hopefully in cool custody.
171
And that serves your allocation to the 40% radical portfolio theory.
172
But the compliance world, you have a lot of options.
173
You have a lot of options in that because there's a lot of Bitcoin-adjacent securities that have come to market.
174
And people are dabbling across all of these Bitcoin treasury companies to seek exposure to Bitcoin, which I predominantly would still call it is the compliance factor because they're in the system of the way we understand the global carry trades, which is essentially driven by liquidity and cross-border flows and all of the institutional capital for which it paints a different story than the resistance assets.
175
So, the reason I picked STRK was because it represents at the highest form all the virtues and the best things about why you want some compliance exposure, which is that the financialization of Bitcoin is a pretty accretive thing if where you're looking.
176
And STRK technically is senior to MSTR, the stock.
177
And the intimation that I'm making here when I say you should allocate to 60 in STRK and 40 in Bitcoin, but, implied they're saying none in MSTR, is trying to explain what is the best part of the securitization model that Wall Street has embraced to create financial products that give you the best risk-adjusted return for allocating money into compliance.
178
And STRK is in many ways a buffer to the Bitcoin experience being long only, because at the core, it's a fixed income- asset.
179
And so it distributes real cash flow because it has a coupon.
180
And that coupon is useful when Bitcoin itself is not very productive in generating a yield.
181
Whereas STRK is the hyper-financialization of Bitcoin to promote the idea that you can achieve yield.
182
And so that's an important thing.
183
That brings you back to the bond versus equity framework where you value some present cash flow today as well as some terminal value of growth in the future.
184
But make no mistake, this is a Bitcoin-long portfolio because at the core, what you're still betting on and where you're 100% united is that the debasement of fiat is going to accelerate both categories regardless.
185
But STRK just gives you one more degrees of freedom because when rates go down, which I think many of us imagine eventually rates will have to come down, the fixed income instruments will benefit greatly.
186
And it could likely be that Bitcoin benefits as well.
187
But fixed income has a very direct correlation to rate reduction in which the NPV increases fairly dramatically.
188
And STRK is the senior part of that structure that's able to capitalize upon this.
189
Now, I wrote this up when STRK was the only preferred instrument, but as now, Laura, there's an additional slew of other preferred equity instruments that Sailor has come to market with, including Strife and most recently, including Stride.
190
And I might even argue Strife is even more pure of a form of the thesis that I'm exuding, which is that Strife is a perpetual cash bond.
191
There has never been a perpetual cash bond that in the U.S.
192
in a preferred structure where if you believe in Bitcoin, this thing is going to be a rates instrument that pays you a yield forever.
193
Forever.
194
This preferred equity cannot be retired.
195
It is not within the possibilities of the docs where Sailor can retire it against your will.
196
It is a forever instrument.
197
And it's a forever instrument that's going to pay you 10 plus percent as long as you believe in Bitcoin today.
198
And that's very complementary to being long Bitcoin as part of the global carry trade that I think they're just very much perfectly made for each other in a 60-40 construct.
199
Something else that you tweeted, which was super interesting, because as you probably know, the typical cycle in crypto is that as things get frothy, there's this altcoin season.
200
And you recently tweeted, scalable institutional crypto alpha won't come from trading altcoins based on liquid venture narratives.
201
It'll come from monetizing the mispriced financialization of Bitcoin and other volatile assets, liabilities.
202
through equity, credit, and options markets across the globe that can be in return hedged via coin arbitrage by crypto natives.
203
In other words, relative value macro.
204
Can you expand on these thoughts?
205
Sure.
206
So,, a long time ago, the crypto universe was very diverse.
207
There was a periodic table of elements of alt tokens you could trade, and,, everyone brought different functions.
208
And over time, I think what has consolidated pretty cleanly is that we live in a world where it's Bitcoin or very much nothing else of interest, at least on the institutional front.
209
And when I say this, I don't mean that this is the world that the world in this direction is permanent nor supported.
210
But at this particular moment, a lot of people are interested in Bitcoin because Bitcoin has emerged as the idea of a pristine collateral that can be a way to fight fiat debasement.
211
And no other token has really captured that narrative yet.
212
And the technology story hasn't really been fully fleshed out for the benefits of decentralization the way crypto enthusiasts had hoped to see.
213
So right now, it's very much a Bitcoin world.
214
And because the TAM of sovereign asset is so big, there's a lot of financialization that is happening here across the board.
215
Bitcoin Treasury companies is one version of it, but you're now seeing companies that are offering life insurance products that are backed off of Bitcoin-based payments.
216
You're seeing mortgage products that are coming online that is being assisted by Bitcoin.
217, Coinbase also over the weekend released a beautiful ad about home ownership costs denominated in Bitcoin.
218
I think that will open people's eyes to imagine what a Bitcoin-backed mortgage could look.
219
And so, Bitcoin is the thing that is being financialized today, and Wall Street has opened its checkbook for it.
220
I think because of the unique opportunity that a crypto-native trader and investor can bridge the world of DeFi and CeFi, they're in a very unique position to be both capital providers, but also takers of different arbitrage opportunities.
221
Because here's the thing: Bitcoin is a commodity, which means anybody can trade it.
222
It's not a U.S.
223
asset, it's not a Chinese asset, it is just a jurisdictionless asset that trades everywhere without permission, whoever wants to do it.
224
And so, it becomes a very clear game of capital efficiency at some level where the risk models are not going to be determined by just the U.S.
225
alone.
226
Basel III and the U.S.
227
can do whatever they want to put capital charges on Bitcoin, but if another jurisdiction does not do that, then they're at an edge where they can trade it differently and they can't control it.
228
So, the thing that is unique about a commodity is that it can't really be controlled by one government in creating the market structure.
229
So, those who can live in DeFi and CeFi and be a liquidity provisioner, I think there's tons of opportunities where people are imagining outsized gains for those that can access those conduits.
230
So, for example, Bitcoin treasury companies coming online is a very big Wall Street play, but there's probably a lot of folks who want to imagine hedging some of that exposure.
231
So, if you have to take the other side of, let's say, hedging Bitcoin Treasury company exposure before it comes to market later this year, you probably will need to find a way to access the shortbook.
232
And if you can do it in a crypto native way, you will have a lens to do it that's different than what the Goldmans of the world can permit in a regulated construct.
233
So it pays to be living in both worlds with both feet in DeFi and CeFi to maximally canvass the most capital efficient ways to put on different trades.
234
And that's what I'm seeing from my purview, that because this is a jurisdictionless asset, the winners are going to look the ones that are jurisdictionless.
235
And I think people are waking up to this reality by the rise of a lot of these other offshore companies, trading operations, and et cetera.
236
And here's the other thing I will add.
237
Offshore tends to get a dirty word, as if it's a criminal thing to do things offshore.
238
At least that's the impression I get when I tell people about offshore financial services.
239
But guess what?
240
Most of the greatest financial innovations that happen in the United States happen offshore.
241
Most insurance companies operate offshore.
242
Most reinsurance companies operate out of Bermuda.
243
All of these channels of capital flows that are really innovating on the edge of bringing utility tends to happen offshore.
244
And I think it's time that the U.S.
245
needs to embrace this idea that there's a reason why offshore jurisdictions exist.
246
There's a reason why Eurodollar futures trade outside of U.S.
247
markets.
248
And the quicker we are able to neutralize offshore being a negative thing, the faster the U.S.
249
can then embrace its capabilities offshore to then bring additional capabilities in-house and cement a long-dated partnership that is net beneficial for the United States as a superpower.
250
Yeah, two things I want to pick up on there are just there's a famous Scott A.
251
Adams saying, which is if you want to become good at something in life or want to become known, or I forget how he frames it, but basically if you become it, if you become good at two different things that are not normally found in one person and that can make for a successful career and what you described just described about DeFi and CeFi and knowing both worlds and then being able to apply the knowledge across both, that I feel is a very similar concept.
252
And then the other thing here,, is just about the offshore and things happening from the fringe.
253, this is just a thing that we see even happen generationally.
254, it's younger people are the ones who are tend to be more revolutionary or even just in a household, you might see teenagers come along and then they have ideas and they want to do things differently.
255
And so the point is that all this stuff that you're saying, it points to the fact that, yeah, the U.S.
256
is the adult in the room.
257
They're the boomers.
258
They're the ones who've always done things a certain way.
259
And frankly, the U.S.
260
is probably ripe for disruption.
261
And so this is a good segue to a next series of questions.
262
One is,, I saw you tweeted, quote, the fact is I worry less about Bitcoin price than I do about U.S.
263
mortgage rates, which is how I know with absolute certainty that the national myth known as the American dream is rapidly changing.
264
So curious to hear you talk more about that.
265
Oh, yeah, for sure.
266
By the way, I would say not only is the U.S.
267
ripe for a moment, the entire US history is based on these moments of insurrection, of opportunities that come in this regulatorily and culturally gray areas.
268
The founding history of the United States alone is a rebellion against the institution that we now know as Great Britain.
269
And everything in this journey from the Louisiana purchase to the Trails of Tears to the Homestead Act, all of these things look a little bit strange at the time.
270
And what I think I'm trying to intuit here is great opportunities are never that boxed nicely in a present that's compliance-led.
271
Because if it was, then everyone would be doing it.
272
And so to go to the West and the frontier and establish the Homestead Act's rules to get land would have been just as weird then as it is weird now people thinking about going on chain to buy Bitcoin as a way to store value.
273
And it's so hard to imagine it because we didn't live in that generation 100 of years ago.
274
But I guarantee you the cultural moment was the same.
275
Who are these people going out west and trying to get land in a place that doesn't matter?
276 why are they going to the metaverse?
277
That metaverse is not valuable.
278
And so I 100% agree with you.
279 these things, they come at you in a way that's not obvious at first.
280
And only by living it, it becomes more obvious.
281
And to me, home price is one of those very obvious things where everyone is priced out globally.
282
Everyone here in the United States or in Europe or in Asia, the common story you hear is young people cannot afford homes.
283
They cannot afford homes because, again, the global carry system that promotes inflation as a way to build continued growth as a story automatically orphans this constituent out.
284
So, so this story to me is not just it's not just class warfare, it's more of a generational wealth transfer related issue.
285
And Bitcoin is the thing that I think most young people have understood to be more worthwhile as a way to store value than how little they can control interest rates.
286
So, if you have to buy a home today and your third-year mortgage is six, seven percent plus,, you're priced out of the market.
287
But what?
288
You can buy Bitcoin today, and Bitcoin is likely going to appreciate in value against the exact six to seven percent that the fiat debasement is trying to charge to you to increase the present value of their asset.
289
That Bitcoin is not only a hedge, it's directionally the right thing to own as a way to grow wealth.
290
So, it's very acutely obvious to young people the role that Bitcoin can serve.
291
So, I don't worry about Bitcoin's price.
292
I think I go to sleep perfectly fine knowing that Bitcoin is generally in a good trajectory, even if it's volatile.
293
I know the story of fiat debasement being unstoppable at this point, and that means you can own Bitcoin and go to sleep, and you don't have to control anything because the government will do what it does.
294
Whereas mortgage rates, it's really hard to know.
295
And I think even now, as I would have imagined, the Trump administration would have tried to lower rates here in the US to promote the American dream of home ownership.
296
The frank reality is it hasn't happened.
297
And we're seeing the challenges when the buyers of our debt who promote the American dream through home ownership is now adversarial to those interests, China and potentially even Japan so the beautiful thing about bitcoin is it has no politics it just is what it is in its representation across the globe of the people who believe in the same value system and you can opt out And that's why I think for me, it's very obvious that young people now think of the American dream very differently.
298
They're not worried about homeownership.
299
They want to become whole coiner.
300
Everyone wants to want one Bitcoin as the American dream if you're a very young person.
301
And many more than that as ways they think about,, the popular meme of retiring their bloodline, but they want more Bitcoin that they can share with them, their nuclear family, their children.
302
And that is a more powerful, I think, social signal than, hey, I have this white-picketed home in the suburban neighborhood.
303
It doesn't carry the same prestige anymore with young people the way that a whole coiner would, I think, in the future.
304
Yeah, so everything that we've been talking about is an individual's positioning in this uncertain world of change that we're facing.
305
But,, we're both Americans.
306
And I did want to ask you, because,, here you are talking about what you think are the prospects on various different metrics for the U.S.
307
And I recently saw, so that, I guess there was a video clip of Treasury Secretary Scott Besson saying that the debt to GDP ratio is 6.7%.
308
And you tweeted, unless we change the actual definition of GDP, the only path to growing the economy faster than the debt will remain inflation.
309
This is why U.S.
310
debt was downgraded.
311
This is why 6040 is breaking.
312
So, I was so curious to know, if you were in Treasury Secretary Scott Besson's position, what would you do?
313
Yeah, that's a fascinating question.
314
And if I were to have the privilege to be in that room, which of course I have no context for what Secretary Besson is, I'm sure, expertly navigating, is the need for more long-term commitment to some global coordination based on selective alliances.
315
I think the reality is the U.S.
316
has been generous in the ways that they've struck alliance agreements without necessarily being very specific about the trade-off that they're making.
317
And this is the naive prosperity that I'm alluding to post-the 90s.
318
Where now I think it's clear the U.S.
319
has a lot of different adversarial enemies, where it's not a bipolar setup, it's a multilateral setup.
320
And so, the idea of demanding true partnerships among certain allies where we can start rank ordering the importance of those allies more explicitly by asking for a financial commitment is, I think, where the world is probably going to have to go.
321
And I wouldn't be surprised, by the way, if this is happening already behind the scenes and we just don't know it.
322
But the idea of having a Plaza Court-style get-together where we re-underwrite the new rules of alliances and find those who depend on the U.S.
323
for their security status and the security guarantee would then have to commit more towards funding the long-term obligations of the United States be made a little bit more explicit.
324
I think the overall tone is that there are some things that were taboo to talk about in the past where it was ungentlemanly to ask for things in this tit for tat way.
325
And so the culture of the world hid all this behind the curtain.
326
And there wasn't this obvious sense of deal making.
327
But,, ebbs and flows as time goes, there are moments when it arises that you do need to make deals.
328
And you do have to confront this in a very explicit and transparent way.
329
So I think if I were Treasury Secretary Bessett, I would have those conversations more in a public forum where,, there's some things to lose if you do that as the dominant superpower.
330
But it allows the possibility to have it more out in the open and find the alliances that really matter that's going to be able to back you up financially for the long haul.
331
So I think having Japan and the U.S.
332
being known as closer allies than I think that the world understands today is an important one.
333
I think the U.S.
334
really does not understand the role of Japan, even today.
335
If you ask a general American person, is Japan an ally to all the things you're living today in your consumer-centric world?
336
Most Americans, I think, don't have a clue.
337
They might even think Japan is the enemy from World War II.
338
But having this clarity, Japan is hinged to the butt of the American experience.
339
And U.S.
340
must succeed together as an alliance, leaning into that energy a little bit more where they're not playing each sides carefully, I think is one way that I might imagine if there's something to be unlocked there.
341
But, I'm not a diplomat.
342
I have no Apollo policy experience.
343
I'm sure there's a thousand things that go underneath it that makes it challenging.
344
These are all multilateral trade agreements at some level.
345
But I think educating the citizens from the grounds up, nonetheless, about how important these alliances are from a financial perspective is one that is worth taking upon.
346
All right, so in a moment, we're going to talk a little bit more about the role that Japan plays in the global financial order.
347
But first, a quick word from the sponsors who make this show possible.
348
Hi, I'm Matt Hogan, CIO of Crypto Asset Manager BitWise.
349
Look, crypto can be confusing.
350
There's so much noise and the space changes so quickly.
351
That's why, every week, I write a five-minute memo on the biggest stories impacting crypto in plain English.
352
Why is Bitcoin up or down?
353
What are people missing?
354
Where should investors look next?
355
Get the lowdown every week.
356
Sign up to get the weekly CIO memo delivered straight to your inbox.
357
Go to bitwiseinvestments.com/slash CIO memo.
358
That's bitwiseinvestments.com/slash CIO memo.
359
Carefully consider the extreme risks associated with crypto before investing.
360
Selling your Bitcoin just to get cash?
361
One early Bitcoiner did and missed out on over a billion dollars.
362
With Zappo Bank, you can access up to $1 million instantly without selling a single SAP.
363
Eligible Zappo Bank members can borrow up to 40% of their Bitcoin's value.
364
No stress, no selling, no buying back in.
365
Use it for what matters most: your dream home, your child's education, a getaway, or that can't miss investment.
366
With Bitcoin-backed loans, you're in control.
367
Set your installments and repay in Bitcoin or US dollars, your choice.
368
Enjoy competitive rates, zero fees, flexible terms, and no penalties for early repayment.
369
And your Bitcoin stays safe, never rehypothecated, re-lent, or pooled.
370
It's securely held until your loan is repaid.
371
Check them out at Zappobank.com/slash unchained.
372
Here's another comment responding to my recent interview with Ryan Watkins on PumpFund's $1 billion fundraise.
373
Specifically, a response to our discussion on what PumpFund would do with $1 billion.
374
Is mass adoption coming?
375
Some of you aren't convinced.
376
On X, Marcus Analyst said, money can't buy product market fit.
377
Leave your reviews for us on Apple Podcasts or leave a comment on an episode on YouTube, Farcaster, or X.
378
We read every one.
379
Back to my conversation with Jeff.
380
So I always hear you talking about Japan.
381, I feel every, not every, but so frequently you are pointing out that they play this super important role in the global financial order.
382
You see them as this linchpin.
383
So what role do you think they will end up playing in the changing global world order?
384
And,, how could the U.S.
385,, just elaborate on where you were going with the previous answer?
386
Yeah,, so the reality is Japan is at the center of the entire financial system today with their global carry trades that have been in place for a long period of time.
387
What by the global carry trade is ultimately the reality that Japan has the lowest cost of debt.
388
And so it is the cheapest source of funding that the U.S.
389
can also still access to be able to promote growth, where Japan has been basically in a deflationary environment for a very long time until most very recently.
390
And so, this relationship is pretty incestuous at some level because Japan, then in looking for growth by not being able to achieve it with their low cost of capital, invests in U.S.
391
stocks directly too.
392
So, it's almost this flywheel where the cost of debt ultimately funnels back into real assets, including U.S.
393
equity as one of the more liquid implementations.
394
And so, it's a whole circular leverage system that is built.
395
And it all depends on whether Japan's interest rate differential versus the U.S.
396
can support that margin of safety.
397
So, anytime there's an issue with Japan's rates going up, you see a violent unwind of the carry trade that directly impacts U.S.
398
rates.
399
And if U.S.
400
rates therefore goes higher, then that automatically has a trickle-down effect, of course, which is very bad for the rest of the world.
401
And so, Japan sits at the middle of, in many ways, controlling that global cost of capital, if you will.
402
That's why I think everyone that's in Global Macro, both economists and traders, are focused on the long-term rates for Japan as well, which is now reaching pretty historic levels that we haven't seen in a long time and genuinely worried how is this going to work with the interest rate differential of the U.S.
403
Basically, there's no way for the U.S.
404
to bring down rates really alone without Japan being a party to this actor in a complicit way to be able to mobilize that capital flow.
405
So, I think Japan is at a critical point in time where they are also experiencing a lot of challenges structurally.
406
They are having problems, of course, with population generally, but also the cost of inflation not being something they've ever been used to.
407
Right?
408
If you're in Japan, the norm was you got less money every year instead of a wage increase, and that was considered normal because everything went down in price.
409
So imagine waking up one day post-COVID-, oh,, now things are going up in price.
410
How are we going to re-inflate the economy?
411
Which is what has in some ways been the thing that helped the U.S.
412
subsidize this economy.
413
It's a direct challenge.
414
So, where do I see Japan emerging?
415
I think Japan will be an incredible player for Bitcoin adoption because if Japan understands where the world is going in the store of value the dollar hegemony might be challenged for, they should have an eye on a way to preserve wealth that touches Bitcoin.
416
And so, I do think when the U.S.
417
does go on the journey of acquiring Bitcoin for their sovereign wealth or treasury assets, then Japan must be a little bit privy to that because they would probably want to act in concert.
418
Now, I don't know if that would be the way it's sequenced, but I would imagine if the U.S.
419
went alone, bought Bitcoin, and called Japan and say, hey, we're buying Bitcoin, just FYI, Japan would be pretty upset because they would say, hey,, we have to do it together because I'm on the other side of the trade.
420
So, if you're going to front run me, they're not going to front you.
421
You can imagine this whole thing would happen pretty quickly.
422
It's also one of the reasons why I think the U.S.
423
has been unable so far to action Bitcoin acquisition.
424
Because once the U.S.
425
starts doing it, there are some other tangential players who would be conflicted in how to approach their own economic security.
426
And I think Japan is at the center of it.
427
So, yeah, I think at the core, Japan is going to be a big player in ushering the era of Bitcoin adoption.
428
I think it's also why MetaPlanet has become such a phenomenon.
429
If you are a Japanese investor and you've had no yield for so long and you finally see the chance to own this asset that is not only just incredibly volatile but high-performing, it's backed by Bitcoin, the one collateral that you can lean on that isn't,, you being the subservient nature to the funding model, you would immediately gravitate towards it.
430
And so I think the meteoric rise of MetaPlanet is truly a cultural one, where the Japanese investors are waking up for the first time to understanding what Bitcoin can do for them, their wealth accumulation strategies, and their portfolio construction.
431
And so this to me is obvious that MetaPlanet is at the center of these colliding energies too.
432
Okay, so we have a bunch of different ingredients here.
433
We have,, the changing outlook for the U.S.,, what role Japan plays in all of this.
434
We've talked about the Triffin dilemma that was the previous episode.
435
And we have Bitcoin.
436
I'm going to introduce a new element.
437
We've talked,, obviously stablecoins are becoming a thing.
438,, there is the stablecoin bill making its way through Congress.
439
Hopefully we'll see legislation this year, fingers crossed, because on that said, it seems likely, but I'm hearing really wild things about what could happen.
440
So anyway, TBD on that.
441
This recent Circle IPO shows that there is definitely interest in this sector.
442
So let's just talk about this new ingredient.
443
Do you think stablecoins could play any role in helping the US out of the Triffin dilemma?
444
Or is that only for Bitcoin or other non-governmental assets?
445
Or just,, as we see,, because we're on the precipice, we all know, of stablecoins becoming even bigger.
446
So,, what role do you see them playing in pretty much,, you can take it in any direction you want because we've talked about so many issues, but I'd be curious to hear how you think they're going to affect any and all of the above.
447
Yeah, I absolutely believe that stablecoin can play a key role in ushering a new era for U.S.
448
might, especially with the dollar.
449
I do believe this is possible, but it's probably not in the ways that people are thinking about it today.
450
So, what do by that?
451
The Genius Act for now contemplates a very benign version of what a stable coin that is regulated here in the United States can be.
452
It is so benign, in fact, that it doesn't even include the idea of a yield-bearing stablecoin.
453
So, the stablecoin that is up for legislation is essentially a fintech play where Venmo can now speak to Zell and there isn't really a lot of interoperability problem of that particular money transfer being eased.
454
It's really a unit of account in a banking system that is being able to be co-opted by a lot of different parties.
455
It's the energy of stablecoin today.
456
That's very different from a yield-bearing stablecoin, which is what most people are interested in unlocking, the idea of a stablecoin that generates money market fund- experiences.
457
And then, the third thing that's even more distant is an offshore issuer that can succeed in the onshore market here in the United States, a tether.
458
That is not really contemplated at all, really, in the scope of the Genius Act today, but is the biggest TAM and where I think the U.S.
459
in the future could find the greatest value for its own dollar dominance.
460
But we just haven't crossed that bridge yet.
461, people compare Circle to Tether a lot.
462
I'm sure you get that conversation.
463
I get it a bunch.
464
But I always remind them that Circle and Tether could be two different things in effect, even though they're both called stable coins.
465
Because Circle is really a different distribution business model where we're talking about just the flows of dollars in a way that's allowing instant settlement and transfer, which has some benefits to money velocity and things that bring certain financial stability and reporting and transparency.
466
But the unlock of Tether is bigger.
467
It's a Euro dollar markets TAM, right?
468
There we're talking about offshore dollars that doesn't have a lot of oversight, doesn't have a lot of surveillance.
469
And what is the benefit of having dollars you can export to foreigners?
470
That's an export business.
471
And that's infinitely more valuable.
472
The problem is it's also infinitely harder to regulate.
473
And so I think the future of stablecoin will be one in which the U.S.
474
is able to work in partnership with this offshore construct where you can start building in some ability to put not just short-term debt in it with T-bills, but long-dated treasury bonds as part of the conversation.
475
Because you have to go back.
476
The number one problem right now is the U.S.
477
has a tough time terming out long-dated debt because people do not want to fund long-dated debt at these higher rates, and their credit worthiness itself is being challenged by U.S.
478
spending and expenditures.
479
So, the problem is long-dated debt.
480
What you can imagine with stablecoins is if there was enough financial engineering, you could start stuffing in some long-dated debt in there as part of the backing of a one-to-one dollar ratio.
481
But then, the problem is, of course, long-dated debt fluctuates very wildly with interest rate, so it doesn't have the one-to-one peg.
482
And so, people will say it's not possible.
483
Well, it is possible if you securitize the stable coin.
484
So, now what I'm talking about is you have a stable coin that has a senior tranche and a mezzanine tranche and a junior tranche.
485
And if you believe in that financial engineering, you can imagine the senior tranche is very stable because the impairment risk is very little to whatever is happening at the residual layer of the 30-year bonds price action.
486
That the senior tranche of the securitization becomes the stable coin.
487
And then you have other residual risk that is acquired for different interested stakeholders, the equity layer being the most volatile piece, but one that also has a clear buyer in crypto, which is that crypto loves volatility and they will buy many things that are volatile for all kinds of purposes, and it's found product-market fit.
488
So, this is all the many ways to imagine what stablecoins could look in the future.
489
But the key that I'm trying to highlight here is: one, it needs a yield-bearing component, and then two, it needs to be able to export it to foreign buyers to really drive value for the U.S.
490
economy and the dollar hegemony.
491
Yeah, unfortunately, the current version of the bill in the Senate is to ban yield-bearing stablecoins.
492
So, TBD on how that will work out.
493
But just to understand, so you do think, though, that if you, if all those things happen that you said you felt were necessary ingredients, would that help the U.S.
494 escape the Triffin dilemma or does that not apply?
495
Is that only for Bitcoin-ish or non-governmental type assets?
496
I don't think it helps you escape the Triffin dilemma explicitly, but what you do get to now bring into the equation is you can start price discriminating between U.S.
497
investors and offshore investors.
498
So the problem with the Triffin dilemma today is that the interest rate as set affects unilaterally both onshore U.S.
499
citizens and offshore lenders, and they're adversarial to each other because the price point is the same.
500
In fact,, it's beyond the same.
501
There's tax benefits for offshore investors where there's portfolio interest margin exemptions where they're favored versus U.S.
502
citizens.
503
And so the thing that could happen with stable coins is you can start price discriminating a zone where the rate the U.S.
504
investors get is not the same rate that the offshore investors get.
505
And I think once you allow a little bit of that bandwidth to exist, where it's not one clearing single rate that offshore and onshore must exchange by, but a band, lower end and an upper end, where there's a bid offer for that.
506
That I think is going to afford an extremely powerful degrees of freedom for the U.S.
507
to navigate its fiscal policies that hasn't happened yet to date.
508
Yeah, basically, it's stable, or sorry, it's basically the U.S.
509
dollar is just a blunt instrument, and then a stablecoin can have numerous credations that make it a much more fine-tuned instrument.
510
And so it just gives central banks or whoever more levers on which to pull to try to help the U.S.
511
in various ways.
512
Is that how to think about it?
513
That's right.
514
Yeah, the overwhelming evidence is that offshore investors want to save in dollars, want to hold dollar-based assets, want to hold dollar, and they're willing to pay a premium for it.
515
The reality is that we haven't charged them for that premium.
516
And that's why the U.S.
517
citizens are on the other side of subsidizing these gains for offshore investors.
518
And the unlock here could be, hey, we are now going to charge you for it.
519
And I know you're not going to get the full,, 4.5% on the 10-year or the 5% on the 30-year.
520
We're going to get you a little less, but they will still do it because that's still preferred versus their own emerging market, local bonds, and local assets.
521
We just have never opened that territory for conversation because I think there has historically always been a little bit something uncouth about price discrimination.
522
And you want to live collaboratively with your neighbors.
523
But the reality is there's a lot of tension today.
524
And this onshore versus offshore conflict is so real.
525
It is so real.
526
It's the rise of the entire political movement as we see as to why people are against immigration.
527
And to then combat this, we do need to start exploring some of this white space that has historically been avoided.
528
And if you do it right, I think there's an optimal outcome for both, which is U.S.
529
investors' benefit, foreign investors' benefit.
530
Everybody wins.
531
Yeah,, I think it's almost the U.S.
532
has to switch its mindset from a more traditional governmental way of things, way of looking at things to a business mindset.
533
And so, if I may apply a very bad analogy here.
534
It's almost surge pricing, right?
535
It's,, Uber's thing is, demand and supply of drivers, and that's how they determine what the different rates are.
536
But,, the U.S.
537
could do the same, but they could do it to the dollar with stablecoins and, have different metrics by which they're determining who gets what rate or whatever.
538
But anyway, these are it's it requires a mind shift.
539
So, out of curiosity, I just so what I feel also fits into this whole discussion is that I know you are not a fan of the Bitcoin's strategic Bitcoin Reserve, and you alluded to this earlier, about how if the U.S.
540
were to do that, then they would want to do it with their partners, with Japan, so as not to screw people over.
541
Is that the only reason, or can you expound a little bit more on why you're not a fan of the SBR?
542
First and foremost, I think the SBR is ultimately a thing that can be very good, but it has to be timed at the right moment.
543
And I still think there are a lot of people who are not invested enough, frankly, in Bitcoin to be able to be a beneficiary of that outcome.
544
And so, most of the way money finds confidence is you have to build a deep, diverse layer of constituents who have ownership at a cost basis in which they want to support it.
545
So,, I am sympathetic to some of the European arguments that I hear where Bitcoin wealth is so concentrated.
546
And so, the whole thing feels a Ponzi when they're the ones selling into the newcomers, and therefore they're profiting off of the new money.
547
And of course, it is categorically false if you believe that Bitcoin is long-term valuable.
548
But I am sympathetic to this sentiment to the extent that we need broad-based participation.
549
And so, I think right now it's still a little bit too early in a way that not everyone has found broad-based participation, right?
550
That's why Bitwise exists.
551
That's why we go out there.
552
We talk to financial advisors, try to convince them why Bitcoin is useful.
553
And then after that is all set up, then the great wealth effect that could come from a sovereign wealth fund price setting could benefit a lot of people.
554
So I think I'm partial to a little bit of this path dependency mattering.
555
And the second thing is the moment the U.S.
556
does that, the dollar hegemony will really be forever different.
557
And I don't know if we're ready to have those conversations yet in a way that there hasn't been enough social consensus on how to imagine that new world order.
558
So the sovereign wealth fund accumulation can't really front-run the buy-ins of the social coalition of those who will support it in the long run.
559
So that's the part where I think I just need more evidence of what that new SDR asset, that is censorship-resistant, neutral asset can look where a government can support it with credibility that is long-lasting and durable the way gold has.
560
And that is the one superpower gold I think still has today over Bitcoin, which is there's universal agreement culturally in a way that is almost indescribable that gold is the thing that all sovereigns agree is valuable as the lender or a borrower of last resort.
561
That's why China keeps accumulating.
562
That's why the U.S.
563
has Fort Knox at its highest scrutiny with security clearance and protection.
564
And Bitcoin just hasn't yet infiltrated the mines as a replacement for gold.
565
That must happen first socially before the U.S.
566
enacts upon its financial might to start requiring Bitcoin.
567
So I think it's inevitable.
568
And at some level, many maxis in the Bitcoin community will say, oh, this is against the whole movement.
569
It was never meant to be political.
570
The sovereigns should stay out of it.
571
But I think that's way too simple-minded.
572
Of course, we're humans.
573
We live in society.
574
We do need things we can find value in.
575
And institutions have to play a role.
576
We're not anarchies here.
577
And I think that convergence is inevitable.
578
But you do want it to happen at a time when the world is ready for it.
579
And right now, it just doesn't feel that ready to have that Bretton Woods style reset button touched.
580
But we will know, right?
581 the thing that I've been telling people is you and I and everyone that is in the crypto community will know when the world is ready for that reset because it'll feel so inevitable and so urgent and so necessary and so politically popular and so not controversial that it will feel so obviously right.
582
We need to happen.
583
And right now, we're at the cusp of exploring this conversation.
584
Yeah, it almost feels if it were to happen now, it would create political opposition, which would create issues for it down the line.
585
In the interest of time, let's move through some recent events that are top of mind.
586
So obviously we have this huge trend going on in the Bitcoin treasury company space.
587
But a lot of these companies are trading at huge multiples relative to the underlying Bitcoin that they hold.
588
So where do you think this is going?
589 would you buy any of these new ones that are trading at these high multiples?
590
Or how do you think about how to value these companies?
591
Sure.
592
I think these Bitcoin treasure companies are here to stay.
593
I think that it is going to be a permanent fixture of our capital markets.
594
And it's pretty simple.
595
The reason is companies want Bitcoin for the same reason individuals want Bitcoin.
596
My colleague Matt Hoogan has been saying this in a very simple way all along, which is corporations fight the same cause that individuals are for which they want to store wealth away from fiat debasement.
597
So I think that's one narrative of it.
598
When you specifically talk about Bitcoin treasure companies, I think there's another category of those who are specifically being born to own just Bitcoin and financialize Bitcoin exposure as a permanent capital vehicle, which is distinct.
599
And I also think that is a long-term viable product that's going to survive its time.
600
And it's really because companies can do things humans can't do, right?
601
Companies can borrow very cheaply.
602
Companies can get credit ratings.
603
Companies can do income trading activities at scale that humans at the retail level cannot.
604
And so there's some value that will come out of scale for an operator who's able to capture the value out of the Bitcoin network.
605
And because of that, there's something useful about a treasury company that is not the perfect proxy for my just owning a Bitcoin in cold custody or owning a Bitcoin ETF as another example.
606
And right now we're seeing a lot of different models come online.
607
Strategy has, in a way, pioneered the first version of it, which is engineering a way to get more Bitcoin exposure very cheaply that you and I could not.
608
For instance, borrowing billions of dollars for zero percent.
609
I could never do that.
610
But here's Strategy, who's able to do it.
611
And you can buy the shares to participate in it.
612
And so, that's a financial opportunity.
613
I think in the future, it's going to become more nuanced and complex, and people are going to start leveling up.
614
Well, beyond that, financial arbitrage, what else can you do?
615
And I think that's where you're seeing some of these new companies try to exert some entrepreneurial and creative energy into their own version and remaking of the image of a Bitcoin treasury company.
616
One in particular that's coming online called Strive has leaned in on the idea of generating alpha on the Bitcoin they hold, which is very distinct from Sailor's implementation that is just a passive holder of those Bitcoin assets in cold custody.
617
There's another company that now is coming online and saying, Hey, we can generate yield on this Bitcoin as well, or principally invest better on acquiring Bitcoin cheaper than what the market provides that could accrue to the benefit of the shareholder.
618
And that's a version of an implementation we just haven't seen before.
619
But I'm wildly optimistic that at some level, all of this hyper-financialization of Bitcoin becomes at the core a bit of an asset management business because you're setting up a permanent capital vehicle that is managing Bitcoin for perpetuity.
620
And so, then there are companies Nakamoto, here I'm wearing proudly one of their shirts, who is trying to build an operating business leveraging the Bitcoin Treasury, which is the idea of having BTC incorporated as part of a treasury company that gives you exposure to Bitcoin-related operating cash flows in addition to the participation of principal gains of owning Bitcoin.
621
And so, that's different than anything we've seen before.
622
We've never talked about a Bitcoin treasury company making real operating cash flow off of the Bitcoin ecosystem that is synergistic to them being funded by Bitcoin.
623 that's a really cool, almost a co-op model of supporting the Bitcoin ecosystem through a treasury play.
624
And so the thing that I will just say at the end of the day is there's many of these coming online.
625
You see one almost popping up every single day, not just here in the US, but across the world.
626
I think South Korea just launched one over this past weekend.
627
And there's many more to come.
628
And I think in the end, the number one thing that matters the most is the person who is being a capital steward of those interests represent what Bitcoiners really care about.
629
Because Bitcoin is not gold.
630
Bitcoin is not this hard metal you put under your mattress and call it a day.
631
It's very much a living, breathing thing.
632
It has developers, it has code, and it changes.
633
And that's the thing, Laura, because you follow the Bitcoin journey as I've known it.
634
But Bitcoin is fragile and it has to be protected in the ways that other assets have nowadays disappeared from the lack of such protection, the way that Bitcoin has survived.
635
And so as we're seeing these debates happening between Bitcoin Core versus NOT and OPC TV and Covenants and bringing different financial channels to bring a new model to the security challenges that Bitcoin might have long term, these are super important conversations.
636
And I think there will come a world where the treasury companies will become important stewards of being governance actors to ensuring the survivability of Bitcoin's interests for the interests of their stakeholders.
637
It's not tomorrow, it's not next year, but in the next five to ten years, I think that's going to be a big component of how people will even choose to think about which Bitcoin treasury companies they want to invest in, the ones that represent their core values.
638
All right, so last question for you.
639
This weekend, we saw the news that X and Polymarket now have come together.
640
They're doing some partnership.
641
And I saw you tweet,, honestly, when I saw this, I immediately thought of you because of our discussion about gambling and polymarket and, whatever.
642
But,, I saw you tweet it.
643
If a radical portfolio manifesto were a single moment, this would be it.
644
Pure signal, pure disruption.
645
So expound on that.
646
Yeah, I have waited, I think, for the possibility of such an announcement because it's exactly what the energy of the auto portfolio is.
647
And it touches upon all of the five points of the manifesto itself, right?
648
Polymarket is an information market, first and foremost, to help people discover what is true or false.
649
In a world where I told you that there is no such thing as true or false in many ways, in a world that's very challenging to navigate, fills with misinformation and government censorship.
650
So Polymarket is a champion for being an arbitrage of truth that is backed by the community's interests in wanting to decipher that market.
651
And then the other thing that's really important is it's decentralized, right?
652
So all of these things are happening in ways that every one of these betting markets can be set up without a lot of intervention by someone centralized to shut things down.
653
And it really is a people's movement to wanting to have an events monitor for things they care about.
654
So that's really important.
655
That touches upon one of the manifesto theme points about the growing unease of centralized authority.
656
And I think the most important thing here is Polymarket really helps people for the first time understand that the world is not deterministic.
657
And the number one thing that I try to tell all the young people as they're growing up today, my son and my daughter included, is nothing exists as a zero or a hundred.
658
It just lives on a spectrum.
659
It could be right at one point, it could be wrong at another point, but based on external factors, these things are morphing all the time.
660
And that probabilistic understanding of outcome is a really important trait, I think, to survive in the future when you have to be empowered to be able to make your own decisions.
661
And I think this is very correlated to the rise of AI in ways that we all know AI is a little bit deterministic.
662
And the only way to fight that is to be probabilistic thinkers.
663
And it's funny, you mentioned the tweet because some time ago, Shane, the founder of Polymarket, tweeted to me directly in my DM and expressed his support for the radical portfolio movement.
664
And I had the day because I couldn't believe that he even read my tweet.
665
But to hear from him directly where he was, this is exactly what the world needs in the ways of thinking about opportunities in the future, especially for the movement on crypto, I felt such alignment there that when you think about what matters the most and all those manifesto points, this is it.
666
This is it.
667
And I think we have to root for polymarket's success because the information market is the most important thing.
668
And if it's powered by people you and I who have edge over information that institutions by definition don't have edge in, it's not that different from the idea of professional gambling being something that you have an edge in that you could do because the information is valuable and it's free and anyone can participate.
669
And you're not gated by Wall Street's control of information.
670
Yes, yes.
671
Honestly, when I saw that, I just was, wow, Jeff must be feeling really good right now.
672
This is before I saw your tweet.
673
But anyway, Jeff, this has been amazing.
674
I didn't get to ask everything, so we'll have to have you back sometime in the future.
675
We already went over this last week, but you can find Jeff at DGT10011.
676
Jeff, is there any other thing you would want to plug?
677
No, that's it.
678
I have a sub stack as well where I try to do some long-form writing.
679
It's in my profile.
680
Love to have continued readership.
681
And otherwise, yeah, let's keep the movement going.
682
You can message me anytime if you ever want to chat about the Radical Portfolio Manifesto and its movement.
683
It's been such a pleasure having you twice in two weeks.
684
I so appreciate it.
685
Thank you so much for having me.
686
It's been such a pleasure.
687
Thanks so much for joining us today.
688
To learn more about Jeff and the Radical Portfolio Theory, check out the show notes for this episode.
689
Unchained is produced by me, Laura Shin, Leop from Matt Pilchard, Ron Ivanovich, Pamajimdar, and Marga Currya.
690
Thanks for listening.