--- METADATA START ---
Show: For-Profit … - The AI Daily Brief (Formerly The AI Breakdown): Artificial Intelligence News and Analysis
Episode: OpenAI Gives Up
Host: Unknown
GUESTS: None
Guests: None
Source URL: https://podcasts.apple.com/us/podcast/openai-gives-up-on-for-profit-conversion/id1680633614?i=1000706609699
--- METADATA END ---

 Today on the AI Daily Brief, OpenAI backs off its plans for a for-profit conversion,
 and before that on the headlines, the company also appears to have reached an agreement to buy
 AI coding platform Windsor for around $3 billion. The AI Daily Brief is a daily podcast and video
 about the most important news and discussions in AI. Today's episode is brought to you by
 Blitzy and super-intelligent to get an ad-free version of the show, go to patreon.com/ai-dailybrief.
 Welcome back to the AI Daily Brief Headlines edition, all the daily AI news you need in around
 five minutes. According to Bloomberg sources, an agreement has been reached for OpenAI to buy
 Windsor for about $3 billion. Now, this is a story we've been following for a while.
 Last month, it was reported that OpenAI was looking to acquire a coding agent platform.
 They had apparently tried to buy cursor a bunch of times before settling on Windsor instead.
 While Bloomberg said that the deal is not formally closed,
 sourcing was clear that an agreement had been reached. Windsor's latest valuation,
 from their last round back in August, was $1.25 billion, and they had apparently been in talks
 with Kleiner Perkins and General Catalyst to raise a new round of funding at a $3 billion
 valuation. Assuming this goes through, it will be OpenAI's largest acquisition to date,
 and shows of nothing else the significance of coding as a use case for AI.
 The company has, of course, been working on their own coding assistant releasing an
 open source version last month. However, it's also seemed like they have their site set on
 something much bigger, with reporting indicating that they wanted to launch a fully automated
 coding agent that can justify a significant price point in the tens of thousands per month
 in the future. Now, online, there is lots of speculation around why OpenAI would make this move.
 Some think it's about WinSurf's rapidly growing 600,000 monthly active users.
 Daily.dev CEO Nimrod Kramer writes, "OpenAI buying WinSurf isn't about IDEs and definitely
 not about AI. It's about owning the developer." WinSurf figured out something most AI infra
 companies haven't. Distribution beats anything. They built a dev-facing product that's actually
 used across 1,000 companies and millions of engineers. That makes them valuable not because
 of their tech, but because of attention. In 2025, that's the new currency.
 This move fits a bigger pattern we're seeing. Foundational AI companies racing to capture
 the last mile. They've realized that whoever owns the developer's workflow owns the future
 of software. For devs, this means two things. One, expect the tools you use to be increasingly
 shaped by whoever owns the underlying model. Two, expect fewer choices, not more, especially
 when products consolidate under one provider. That's the bet OpenAI is making. They didn't
 just acquire a product. They acquired a distribution channel, a data flywheel, and a wedge into
 dev teams who've been leaning towards Claude or cursor. Now, speaking of that, the other big line
 of conversation is people thinking that the battle between cursor and WinSurf looks a lot
 different if because of this acquisition, WinSurf users only have access to OpenAI's models.
 Developer Nick Dobos writes, "Cursor versus WinSurf becomes a much different conversation.
 If WinSurf can't use Claude or Gemini." Near SD writes, "I don't get it. Doesn't this kill
 WinSurf? Cursor's biggest USP is that you can switch to the latest greatest model."
 Now, it's not a guarantee that that's how OpenAI is going to play this,
 especially given that we've seen them make moves. Recently, that suggests they're
 willing to play ball with where the community is, specifically in supporting MCP. Still,
 given that we haven't even gotten a confirmed deal, details will have to wait just a little bit.
 Speaking of cursor, however, any sphere of the company behind Cursor have reportedly raised
 $900 million at a $9 billion valuation, led by Thrive Capital with participation from
 injuries in Horowitz and Excel. This is a jump from their last round of funding,
 which came in January, at a $2.5 billion valuation.
 Now, it certainly seems like capital requirements have increased.
 The previous round only raised $105 million, marking a huge jump up this time.
 At this point, any sphere is one of the fastest growing software companies in history.
 The Financial Times reports the startup grew annual recurring revenue to $200 million in April,
 with numerous others suggesting that that number is already up to $300 million.
 Last time we checked in on well-sourced figures, ARR was running at a $48 million pace in October.
 Coding assistants were already one of the big winners in AI Venture,
 but this round cements that the numbers are there to back up the hype.
 Lastly today, staying on market and investment themes,
 Goldman Sachs says to buy the dip on AI stocks. The deep-seek jitters are gone,
 and fear of infrastructure overbuilding are melting away as investment bank analysts
 look to the dip in big tech as a buying opportunity. A recent research note stated,
 "It's fair to say there's a lot of pessimism in this theme. We consider this an opportunity
 to buy the dip." As for some justification, big tech recently completed their earning cycle
 with each company reporting strong growth in their AI-related business lines.
 Microsoft did confirm that they're pulling back slightly on data center spending,
 but clarified that this is more about preparing for a glut in a few years' time than it is
 about the current conditions. Everyone else is doubling down on CapEx even as tariffs
 increase the cost of construction. Goldman Sachs Analysts wrote,
 "All AI themes are cheaper than they were at the beginning of this year as well as last year.
 Looking at long-term earnings growth, the different baskets look cheaper to previous AI years,
 closer to pre-CHACHIBT levels. Looking at our broad AI baskets performance relative
 to its earnings, the group continues to be cheap while earnings prove to be steady.
 Compare this to the bank's analysis from around a year ago, when they published a report titled
 'Gen AI, Too Much Spend, Too Little Benefit.' I spent the whole summer swatting that one down.
 Might I be able to actually focus on the technology this summer instead?
 We'll have to wait and see, but for now, that is going to do it for today's AI Daily
 Brief Headlines edition. Next up, the main episode.
 Today's episode is brought to you by Blitzy, the enterprise autonomous software development
 platform with infinite code context. Which, if you don't know exactly what that means yet,
 do not worry we're going to explain, and it's awesome. So Blitzy is used alongside
 your favorite code and co-pilot as your batch software development platform for the enterprise,
 and it's meant for those who are seeking dramatic development acceleration on large-scale code bases.
 Traditional co-pilots help developers with line-by-line completions and snippets,
 but Blitzy works ahead of the IDE. First, documenting your entire code base,
 then deploying more than 3,000 coordinated AI agents working in parallel to batch
 build millions of lines of high-quality code for large-scale software projects.
 So then, whether it's code-based refactors, modernization, or bulk development of your
 product roadmap, the whole idea of Blitzy is to provide enterprise's dramatic velocity improvement.
 To put it in simpler terms, for every line of code eventually provided to the human
 engineering team, Blitzy will have written it hundreds of times,
 validating the output with different agents to get the highest-quality code to the enterprise
 in batch. Projects then that would normally require dozens of developers working for months
 can now be completed with a fraction of the team in weeks, empowering organizations to
 dramatically shorten development cycles and bring products to market faster than ever.
 If your enterprise is looking to accelerate software development, whether it's large-scale
 modernization, refactoring, or just increasing the rate of your STLC,
 contact Blitzy at Blitzy.com that's BLITZY.com to book a custom demo,
 or just press get started and start using the product right away.
 Today's episode is brought to you by Super Intelligent, and more specifically,
 our agent readiness audits. Every company right now is in the midst of a discovery process,
 trying to figure out how autonomous agents are going to change both how they work internally,
 as well as the way they service their customers, and even what products they actually offer.
 Agent readiness audits are the fastest, most efficient way to find out where and how
 agents can have the biggest impact on your business. We deploy a custom-designed voice
 agent to interview teams and leaders, run that through a hybrid human AI analysis process,
 to produce an agent readiness score, plus a set of insights and actionable recommendations
 for both what agent use cases are likely to drive the most value,
 and what you need to do internally to be most ready to seize those opportunities.
 After the audit, there are a variety of next steps. We can dive deep and provide an action
 planning report on one or more of the specific use cases. We also provide leadership accountability
 coaching to help support internal change management, or you can turn your audits into
 RFPs on our marketplace. So go to bsuper.ai or email us agents@bsuper.ai to learn more about
 agent readiness audits. Welcome back to the AI Daily Brief.
 Today we have the latest in the saga of OpenAI control. And I think before we dive in,
 it's worth noting just quickly why I think it's worth paying attention to this stuff,
 even though it sometimes takes on a soap opera feel, particularly based on the big egos of
 the actors involved. The short of it is, OpenAI is one of a very small handful of companies,
 with an extremely outsized impact on the shape of the future of artificial intelligence,
 which by proxy means the shape of the future in general. Part of the reason, as we'll discuss
 today, that there is so much wrangling around the legal and operational structure of OpenAI,
 is that the different approaches have very different implications for rights, responsibilities,
 and so much more. I will of course continue to try to avoid the melodramatic parts of the story
 and just focus on the parts that are relevant to most of us. But in any case,
 the TLDRs that OpenAI is walking away from plans to convert to a for-profit company,
 the company will still convert their for-profit subsidiary into a public benefit company,
 but the nonprofit will continue to oversee and control the operating company as a large
 shareholder. Now, before we get into what OpenAI wrote about the announcement this week,
 let's go back to where they discussed their intention to shift structure last December.
 On December 27th, the company published a blog post called why OpenAI's structure
 must evolve to advance our mission. That piece began, OpenAI's board of directors is
 evaluating our corporate structure in order to best support the mission of ensuring AGI
 benefits all of humanity with three objectives. One, choose a nonprofit and for-profit structure
 that is best for the long-term success of the mission. Two, make the nonprofit sustainable.
 Three, equip each arm to do its part. From there they got into the past of the company,
 citing the original reason for moving beyond a simple nonprofit structure. They wrote that
 as they learned more about their mission, "eventually it became clear that the most
 advanced AI would continuously use more and more compute and that scaling LLMs was a promising
 path to AGI rooted in an understanding of humanity. We would need far more compute and
 therefore far more capital than we could obtain with donations in order to pursue our mission."
 That led in 2019 to them, "becoming more than a lab, we also became a startup."
 They estimated at the time that they'd have to raise on the order of $10 billion to build AGI.
 To do that, "we created a bespoke structure, a for-profit controlled by the
 nonprofit with a capped profit share for investors and employees. We intended to make significant
 profits to pay back shareholders and have the remainder flow to the nonprofit. In 2019,
 they raised $100 million followed by a billion from Microsoft and they were, of course, off to
 the races." That brings us up to the present. They wrote, "As we enter 2025, we will have
 to become more than a lab and a startup. We have to become an enduring company."
 And so that led them to these steps. They wrote, "Our plan is to transform our existing
 for-profit into a Delaware Public Benefit Corporation with ordinary shares of stock
 and the open AI mission as its public benefit interest."
 Second, they wanted to give the nonprofit shares in that PBC, "multiplying the resources
 that our donors gave many fold." And three, and finally, they wanted to separate the two.
 "Our current structure does not allow the board to directly consider the interest of
 those who would finance the mission and does not enable the nonprofit to easily do more than
 control the for-profit. The PBC will run and control open AI's operation and business,
 while the nonprofit will hire a leadership team and staff to pursue charitable initiatives
 in sectors such as healthcare, education, and science." It's very clearly the intention for
 the nonprofit in this future vision was to do nonprofit-y things, not run the for-profit.
 This raised some ire, most notably, of course, with Elon Musk. In early February,
 Musk offered to buy open AI for $97.4 billion. In a statement from Musk's lawyer, he said,
 "It's time for open AI to return to the open-source safety-focused force for good
 at once was. We will make sure that happens." Now, of course, Sam Altman and open AI bit back.
 On Twitter /x, Altman wrote, "No thank you, but we will buy Twitter for $9.74 billion if you want."
 And Altman also wrote on a Slack message to his team, "Our structure ensures that
 no one individual can take control of open AI. These are tactics to try and weaken
 us because we're making great progress." But although it might have been a stunt,
 the message from Musk's camp was loud and for some resonant. Musk lawyer Mark Toberoff said,
 "If Sam Altman and the present open AI board of directors are intent on becoming a fully
 for-profit corporation, it's vital that the charity be fairly compensated
 for what its leadership is taking away from it. Control over the most transformative technology
 of our time." The war of words and actions continued to ratchet up. On March 14th,
 open AI published another blog post, starting to explicitly name Elon as an antagonist.
 This post was called, "The court rejects Elon's latest attempt to slow open AI down."
 They wrote, "This lawsuit has always been about what's good for Elon and his own for-profit AI
 company. The truth is, he wanted to merge a for-profit open AI into Tesla as his own e-malt show.
 We turned him down and he left because he couldn't seize control. When he later
 saw the progress we'd made without him, Elon began resorting to baseless lawsuits while
 still trying to copy our playbook to develop competing models with his own for-profit
 multi-billion dollar company. Last week, the court rejected Elon's request for a preliminary
 injunction, finding that he hadn't demonstrated likelihood of success of the merits of his claim.
 In fact, the court went further dismissing several of his claims from the case entirely.
 They continue, "As Elon is finding out, facts matter, especially in court.
 And the most important fact is one, he keeps twisting. The nonprofit isn't going anywhere.
 Despite what Elon claims, there is no for-profit conversion in the cards.
 We welcome the opportunity to make it clear in court that we fully intend to,
 one, keep the nonprofit as a crucial part of our work to achieve our mission,
 and two, make sure it's not just supported by a successful business but in a stronger
 position than ever." On May 1st, Bloomberg wrote, "A judge narrowed claims in Elon Musk's lawsuit
 alleging that OpenAI broke its promise to function as a public charity by making plans
 to transform itself into a for-profit business. A U.S. District Judge ruled that Musk can
 pursue fraud claims in the complaint he filed against OpenAI, and also declined
 to dismiss an unjust enrichment claim against OpenAI and Microsoft.
 The judge did, however, throw out claims of false advertising and breach of fiduciary claims.
 Effectively a mixed bag, but kind of for OpenAI, any bag that wasn't just an outright dismissal
 of everything was sort of a bad bag." And that brings us up to the news today.
 In a blog post explaining OpenAI's change in direction,
 Board Chairman Brett Taylor wrote, "We made the decision for the nonprofit to retain control
 of OpenAI after hearing from civic leaders and engaging in constructive dialogue with the
 offices of the Attorney General of Delaware and the Attorney General of California.
 We thank both offices and we look forward to continuing these important conversations
 to make sure OpenAI can continue to effectively pursue its mission of ensuring AGI benefits
 all of humanity. Sam appended an open letter to the staff, which read, "OpenAI is not a normal
 company and never will be. When we started OpenAI, we did not have a detailed sense of
 how we were going to accomplish our mission. We see AGI as a way to directly empower everyone
 as the most capable tool in human history. We're committed to this path of democratic AI.
 We want to put incredible tools in the hands of everyone." He then talks about how much
 people are using chat GPT and for what? But continues, "But people want to use it much more.
 We currently cannot supply nearly as much AI as the world wants, and we have to put
 usage limits on our systems and run them slowly. It's time for us to evolve our structure.
 And there are three things we want to accomplish. We want to be able to operate and get resources
 in such a way that we can make ourselves broadly available to all of humanity,
 which currently requires hundreds of billions of dollars and may eventually require trillions
 of dollars. We want our nonprofit to be the largest and most effective nonprofit in history,
 and we want to deliver beneficial AGI. This includes contributing to the shape of safety
 and alignment. As AI accelerates our commitment to safety grows stronger, we want to make sure
 democratic AI wins over authoritarian AI. He then reiterates that they've decided for
 the nonprofit to stay in control. OpenAI, he writes, was founded as a nonprofit,
 is today a nonprofit that oversees and controls the for-profit,
 and going forward will remain a nonprofit that oversees and controls the for-profit.
 The biggest change then is one, the plan to make the change, and two, the structure of the for-profit
 LLC that sits under the nonprofit. The transition to a public benefit corporation will go forward.
 Almond writes, "Instead of our current complex capped profit structure, which made sense when
 it looked like there might be one dominant AGI effort, but doesn't in a world of many
 great AGI companies, we're moving to a normal capital structure where everyone has stock.
 This is not a sale, but a change of structure to something similar."
 An open AI spokesperson confirmed that investors will own regular stock with no
 capped upside, also confirming that the goal was to make it easier to raise money in the future.
 The Office of the Attorney Generals were a little unclear on where they land with the
 news structure. The press office simply wrote, "The California Department of Justice is reviewing
 the new proposed plan. This remains an ongoing matter, and we are in continued conversations
 with open AI." Now, in terms of interpretation, people are still kind of just wrapping their
 heads around this. But the information suggested that this is a hollow victory for Elon Musk,
 and that it may lead to Sam Altman winning the war. They wrote, " Musk might have thought that
 by blocking open AI's restructuring, he could hobble its efforts to raise money,
 and make it easier for his own startup XAI to take the lead in the field. But today's decision
 shouldn't hamstring open AI's fundraising. An IPO should be easily doable once open AI
 distributes regular shares in the for-profit business to its investors, replacing the rights
 they now have to future profits. All investors surely care about his open AI's market lead,
 which seems undiminished at least right now." Importantly, the information piece pointed out
 that investors not having control over the company is nothing new in Silicon Valley.
 Both Meta and Google have dual-class shares that give the founders the deciding vote in all
 important decision-making. That structure obviously doesn't seem to have dissuaded investors with
 each of those companies growing into one of the largest in the world. Will the stop Elon Musk?
 Probably not. Hours before the announcement, Musk's lawyer said that they planned to go
 ahead with the lawsuit, despite this statement. Maybe the biggest overhang from this is open AI's
 investors in the state of recent fundraising. The last two rounds of fundraising were contingent
 on open AI converting to a for-profit. SoftBank has the right to walk away from $10 billion
 pledged in April, and investors led by Microsoft have the right to clawback $6.6 billion raised
 last October if the conversion doesn't go through. Now, this new structure would remove
 the profit cap on shares, so perhaps that's good enough for the group of investors.
 Axios editor Dan Primack writes, "Today's open AI non-profit for-profit news may give
 some investors a chance to ask for their money back, but I'm not hearing there's any interest
 in making such an ask." Still, it does appear that when it comes to this plan,
 Microsoft isn't satisfied. In a piece titled, "Microsoft is key holdout for open AI restructuring
 plan." They write, "The software giant wants to make sure that any changes to open AI's
 structure adequately protect Microsoft's investment." Microsoft is still actively
 negotiating details of open AI's proposal. Microsoft has funded open AI to the tune of
 $13.75 billion, but their funding came in a much lower valuation, meaning any sort of buyout
 could stretch open AI's finances. The deal was also structured with a revenue share baked in,
 as a significant sum of the funding came long before the conversion was contemplated.
 We don't know exactly how much open AI owes Microsoft at the current moment,
 but in October, the Wall Street Journal reported on the structure of the deal,
 with Bloomberg's Matt Levine expanding on the reporting, adding that the end state of the
 revenue sharing agreement was that Microsoft has a claim on 49% of profits up to a certain limit.
 He didn't know where that limit was, but said that 10x seemed plausible,
 making the Microsoft stake worth up to $137.5 billion.
 Bloomberg sources claim that only open AI insiders, Microsoft, and a handful of other early
 investors have a say on approving the deal. Microsoft are reportedly looking to rewrite
 the revenue sharing agreement and negotiate their equity stake alongside other issues.
 So where is this all land? Ultimately, it seems like open AI decided that they were fighting
 a losing battle and/or the California Attorney General's office stepped in to tell them they
 just didn't have a chance at approval. Functionally, it appears that the most important part of
 the conversion is still in place, uncapping profits for new investors, but Microsoft
 remains a sticking point, the AGI's approval is not guaranteed, and like we discussed,
 Elon seems hellbent on taking them to court. And so for now, the saga continues.
 However, for us, that is where we will close today. Appreciate you listening or watching,
 as always, and until next time, peace.
 [Music]
