--- METADATA START ---
Show: Unchained
Episode: Pump.fun’s $1 Billion ICO Has …
Host: Laura Shin
GUESTS: Ryan Watkins 
Guests: Ryan Watkins
Source URL: https://podcasts.apple.com/us/podcast/pump-funs-%241-billion-ico-has-caused-controversy-can/id1123922160?i=1000711835065
--- METADATA END ---

1
About 40 to 50 percent of all volume on pump is routed through third-party interfaces or robots.
2
So what that means is that pump, the front end, is no longer the point of discovery for the pump ecosystem of assets.
3
And the risk here is that the more this trend continues, potentially the less control pump has over its own destiny.
4
Because if everyone starts trading on pump through third-party interfaces, and let's say one of the interfaces gets very large, well, what's stopping that interface from launching their own launchpad and just directing all their users there?
5
Hi, everyone.
6
Welcome to Unchained, your now-hype resource for all things crypto.
7
I'm your host, Laura Shin.
8
Do you want to hear your comments on an episode of Unchained?
9
Every episode, we feature a few.
10
Alex L.
11
Witt had this to say on X in response to my recent interview with BitWise's Jeff Park.
12
Without government spending and printing, U.S.
13
would be in a recurring recession, e.g.
14
multiple quarters negative GDP growth.
15
SP 500 is just an inflation hedge for all the money printing in the absence of actual growth.
16
If you have thoughts on a recent episode or on the podcast overall, leave a comment on Apple Podcasts or on our video on YouTube, Farcaster, or X.
17
This is the June 6th, 2025 episode of Unchained.
18
Leden is a leading platform for Bitcoin-backed loans, offering a secure and transparent way to unlock liquidity without selling your Bitcoin, issuing loans since 2018 and earning over 1,000 TrustPilot reviews.
19
Learn more at leaden.io.
20
In many countries, governments freeze accounts, surveill transactions, and seize assets, not just from activists, but from everyday people.
21
That's why the Human Rights Foundation created the Financial Freedom Report.
22
Sign up to receive it weekly at financialfreedomreport.org.
23
Imagine an AI that speaks crypto and does the work of a team of analysts.
24
Introducing Focal by Falcon X, bringing clarity to a world of noise.
25
Visit askfocal.com.
26
Today's guest is Ryan Watkins, co-founder of Synchrocy Capital.
27
Welcome, Ryan.
28
Hey, nice to see you again.
29
On Tuesday, an X account called Next Fucking Thing broke the news that PumpFund will be raising $1 billion via an ICO at a $4 billion fully diluted valuation.
30
They added some detail later, saying this will happen across multiple centralized exchanges.
31
There will also potentially be a 10% airdrop to the community.
32
And they thought it would happen by the end of the month, maybe even in the next two weeks.
33
The community seemed to have what I perceive to be a largely negative reaction.
34
For instance, Ansom tweeted, PumpFund raising $1 billion at a $4 billion evaluation after Trump coin launch is the second plane hitting the towers.
35
He also did a poll.
36
Pump Fund is, and then the two choices were good for crypto and bad for crypto, and 70% voted bad for crypto.
37
So I was wondering what your reaction was, and also what your reaction to the reaction was.
38
Yeah, I think meme coins have always been a lightning rod within this community as far as the past two years.
39
And I think pump specifically has been a very polarizing topic as far as is it positive or negative for crypto.
40
And I remember even in 2024, people were wondering: okay, is it stealing flows away from valuable projects?
41
Is it positive if there are new people that are being onboarded to these blockchain rails that can maybe eventually go and pivot and try out new applications?
42
Because they now have a Phantom wallet, they have money on the Phantom wallet, and they can go from there.
43
And I don't think anyone has really found the right answer.
44
It's unclear if it's good or bad.
45
And I think with this ICO, what really got people so mad is Pump has made a lot of money since inception.
46, this thing is not even that old.
47
It launched in Q1 2024.
48
It has generated $700 million in revenue cumulatively.
49
And that is the most of any application in the crypto economy from just flipping the 1% fee on the trade piece of this bonding curve.
50
So, and while this is happening, too, a lot of pump users are losing money.
51
And they're losing money increasingly, not just because they're making bad bets on meme coins, because there is so much more exploitive behavior on pump, where there are snipers that are taking up the supply of your bonding curve.
52
There's these weird,, insider dealings for some meme coins.
53
It has become a game that is not as fair as it once was when before pump existed and it was just this fun thing that people did.
54
It's, oh, cool, the dog has a hat.
55
Let me go buy, and it's this community thing.
56
And it's just now there's this whole meme coin industrial complex that the retail investor now has to deal with.
57
And I think that's why people are angry because they've lost a lot of money.
58
Pump has made a lot of money.
59
And now they're going back out to the community and saying, give me a billion dollars more without really putting out a reason why they need this capital.
60
So I think people are right to be a little bit, right to be skeptical.
61
But I do think that the sentiment so far I've seen is universally bearish.
62
And I do question if that is the right read on what's going on here.
63
Because at the end of the day, regardless of whether or not you are a believer that pump is valuable for society or not valuable for society, in the same way I think people would have the same debate over whether casinos are net good for society or not.
64
It is a valuable business that people willingly pay to use and it is making a ton of money.
65
And it is also the most, it's the defining project of the cycle for Solana.
66, meme coins literally defined the past few years.
67
And now it's launching a token.
68
And what?
69
One thing that people really want today is are tokens that have real value accrual.
70
And here is one where it's priced somewhat reasonably if you believe that this meme coin trend could continue.
71
That's the topic of conversation.
72
And does it have real value accrual?
73
So yeah, I think that's one thing that I'm working through on my own is,, is this as bad as people think on the initial reaction that the most successful application of Solana that's generating a ton of money is now offering people the ability to buy into it.
74
And quote unquote, on the screen.
75
Yeah, I did see that you had tweeted something about casino users getting mad at the casino for making money and then trying to raise more money to build a bigger casino.
76
But as you pointed out, people were saying, no, no, no, this is worse than a casino.
77
Some of the responses, one was, they are not a casino.
78
They are the people who are robbing people in a casino while they're playing.
79
You guys are smoking crack if you think the way Pump Fun allowed insane farming, bottling, scamming is anywhere close to the level of what casinos do.
80
And someone else tweeted, casinos have take rates that you can understand.
81
What is the true take rate of the Pump Fund casino when you have snipers, bundlers, exorbitant fees, and no gambling addiction protections?
82
And then,, you probably saw this other person, Solo J, tweeted the top 25 wallets with the highest volume on Pump Fun, and it's all bots and MEV bots and the juke aggregator.
83, there was, there, I think there were a couple that were real people.
84
But so, yeah, I guess to mention,, what you said about how they raised the most money last year or sorry, made the most money.
85, mentioned,, oh, they're going to do more with this, but they haven't mentioned what.
86
Yeah, I saw another person, Mosi, aka Jana Charmer, tweeted, I'd argue that if with $700 million they haven't been able to ship anything interesting besides their initial product, more capital isn't going to change this.
87
And he pointed out they basically just shipped a streaming product in an AMM.
88
So I wondered,, what do you think they could do with this?
89
Money.
90
Yeah.
91
So, I guess there's a couple of things I'll answer there.
92
The first one is on the ICO.
93
So, to put this in context, this will be the third largest ICO in history if they successfully complete it.
94
EOS was about 4.2 billion.
95
That was done over the course of a year in 2018.
96
There was a Telegram ICO, I think that was 1.7 billion.
97
And next up would just be,, after that, there's a very steep drop-off.
98
I think maybe the third behind that is might be Tezos at 233 million.
99
So, this is a huge, a huge raise.
100, in fact, they're raising as much as Circle did today.
101
And it's a meme coin launch pad, just to put it in perspective.
102
So, yeah,,, what could they do with the money?
103
I have ideas.
104
So, I think that the points that the Vanna Charmer was making are fair, right?
105
I don't think it's that difficult to basically spin up a new AMM that is not really that differentiated.
106
Now, the AMM is making good money.
107
I think about,, it's a makes about a million dollars a week for Pump Def on $52 million a year.
108
So, it is a revenue generating product.
109
But, yeah, beyond that, there's not really much to show as far as what that capital that they've been investing back into product has led to.
110
And that could either be because there are going to be products that they're going to roll out in the coming months after they launch a token, or they just haven't allocated the capital well.
111
So, when you go out to the community and ask for, what's again, the third largest ICO ever, I do think it'd be helpful to have more answers on what we do with capital.
112
So, some things that I'm thinking they could do, and it's just me guessing, is if they really want to make this big push into streaming and create this TikTok of consumer finance, which seemed direction they're billion, then what they would probably want to do is go get a ton of high-quality streamers on the platform.
113
And these streamers are very expensive.
114
So, for example,,, these streaming deals can get up to hundreds of millions.
115, Aiden Ross, one of the biggest streamers in the world, has a $200 million deal with Kik.
116
Ninja, the streamer that played Fortnite, and he's a $50 million deal with Twitch.
117, these things are, they get really, really, really pricey for the top-level streamers to stream on your platform exclusively.
118
I do think with a huge war chest, then maybe you can just go and acquire some of those streamers to go onto pump, and that could be good for getting the viral loop in motion.
119
So that's one way they could do it.
120
It'd be a pretty crude way of growing a platform, but I think it's possible.
121
And then who knows, right?
122
Maybe they could launch some other adjacent products, right?
123
Maybe they go and build a chain.
124
Maybe they go and build an exchange.
125
Maybe they go and launch a stable coin.
126, just think about what are the most profitable businesses in the crypto economy.
127, those are it, right?
128
And I think that now, if you are at a $4 billion valuation and the founders want to grow this into something that is bigger than that, then,, those are probably the things that they have to do.
129
You either create this really viral social app, which doesn't exist in crypto, or you go out and you go and build out these known to be profitable products, which are the exchanges and the stable coins and maybe even a blockchain.
130
So those are things I could think they could do.
131
Now, I don't know if all those things need $1.7 billion of capital to go build, but we'll see.
132
They can also make some acquisitions as well.
133
I know it's something that the Jupyter team has done quite well.
134
And that definitely takes some real money to do.
135
And do you have what you think would be the best strategy for what I would do with the money?
136
Well,, I'd be a little bit biased, but I think if I were them and I really want to go heavy on social, I would try to hire as many people as possible from these big social media companies to help me build this.
137
So TikTok, Meta, ideally some people with backgrounds in AI to help design the feed, because I think that there isn't challenge with discovery on the pump app.
138
It just feels very schizo.
139
I have no idea what I'm looking at half the time.
140
And it's just pretty chaotic.
141
I also probably would go out and try to get some big streamers on the platform, some Kryptonado streamers, maybe some Web2 streamers, and that could be costly.
142
There's also a world where I think if you want to build an exchange, it's thinking about Hyperliquid, it has this new primitive called HIP3, where you can go spin up new markets on Hyperliquid and split the fees 50-50 with Hyperliquid.
143
And I think that's a very symbiotic relationship I could see working out as well if Pump ever want to launch professionals for its meme coins that graduate off a spawning curve or they hit a certain market capitalization.
144
Or they might even just want to go build an exchange on their own because they have so much money.
145
Why not just swing at the fences?
146
So those are some things I think they can do.
147
But once again, it's anyone's guess what they want to do with all that money.
148
It would be ideal if they also just launched some big buybacks, to be honest.
149, to drive some value accrual to the token.
150
And wait, I'm sorry, launch the token and then do buybacks of the token itself, you mean?
151
Or what do you yes, as in with the revenue?
152
Okay, yeah, I guess I think you're right that since we don't know, it's what could you need all that money for?
153
And yeah, if I just remember just thinking,, okay, that's so many engineers, and,, this is, it was just, make the math, make math.
154
But some of what you described there, I feel makes sense if they try to shift, this is just my personal opinion.
155
I could be totally wrong.
156
I'm not a business person.
157
But, but,, somehow the notion of shifting it more toward content and not, because all these points about it being so extractive and all the anger that we saw,, I think it's because it's so far on that end of the spectrum.
158
But if it were to be able to shift more towards some mashup of true memes, meaning culture and money, then I feel that is a more sustainable path because otherwise there's just going to continually be, I think, people being unhappy with them.
159
Agreed.
160
And I think another thing they could do as well is they don't necessarily have to double down on the whole meme coin thing.
161
I think what is great, they're in a great position right now as the dominant launch pad.
162
They have 95% market share.
163
Now, as we just discussed, they have a big war chest.
164
They also have one of the most popular front ends on Solana right now, and, a mobile application that's growing in popularity.
165
What they could also do is just expand the product offering horizontally and just become a more general purpose launch pad.
166
So,, recently we saw, hey, not that it's really dented any market share, but believe come out with this whole thesis of we're gonna allow entrepreneurs to issue internet capital markets coins, startup tokens on the platform.
167
And of course,, what is one of the issues is that you have no idea what you're buying.
168, is this equity in a company, or is it just some random thing that someone uses to make themselves rich?
169
What is good about the platform is that it curates the assets that are available for people to purchase.
170
So, there is more fair.
171
I think the idea is that you create a you almost create the better odds for the people on your platform to invest in a legitimate project, whereas with POP, it's just anarchy, right?
172
So, I think maybe expanding the tool set so that you can, maybe there's better curation, maybe you're attracting more real projects to do that.
173
Maybe you need some new features to be able to track those new projects, adding vesting for founder allocations, maybe even add some fundraising mechanism so that people can raise money in the platform.
174
Obviously, it needs to be regulatory compliant, of course.
175
But yeah, those are also ways that this can expand horizontally as well, so that it's not just meme coins, it's just a general purpose, it's just general purpose capital markets infrastructure that use meme coins to bootstrap the adoption of it.
176
So, that could be very cool as well.
177
It's it just pivots into just being a, I don't know, just another big trading app and capital markets platform and that just happen to start or more speculative.
178
And maybe the one last thing I will say too is: because you touched on it in one of the prior questions where people are angry about the wealth extraction that's happened in the ecosystem.
179
And a lot of this wealth that's being extracted is not even, it's not even pump.
180 pump is just providing a service, training revenue.
181
There's all these third-party actors that are building these snipers and just milking the ecosystem.
182
And it touches on a core tension, I think, that's always been here when thinking through what it means to build a truly permissionless system is,, what, what is, what is a, where does the overton window end?
183, what are we fine with happening on blockchains?
184
Right?
185, do we want people to go and finance terrorists or do crazy things that are anarchic on a blockchain?
186
Or do we want some boundaries?
187
And I think it's the same thing with Pump.fund, where it's,, is this a product that people are fine with supporting in the ecosystem?
188
Or do people think that this is something that is just, I don't know, brain rot for people's money and it's just very unfair?
189
And I don't have an answer for that.
190
And this is something that I think,, everyone is coming to terms with as they confront a system that is,, raises some interesting questions about what should be built on a blockchain and what should not.
191
So in a moment, we're going to talk a little bit more about various aspects of this potential ICO.
192
But first, a quick word from the sponsors who make the show possible.
193
Wish you could access cash without selling your Bitcoin?
194
Leaden makes that possible.
195
The global leader in Bitcoin-backed lending, Leaden has issued over $9 billion in loans since 2018 and never lost a single Satoshi of client assets.
196
Why is a Leaden loan different?
197
With custody loans, collateral is not lent out to generate interest.
198
No credit checks, funds in less than 12 hours, no monthly payments, repay whenever you want, with zero penalties.
199
And proof of reserves reports, verified by a top accounting firm, are published every six months.
200
Leaden gives Bitcoin holders a secure, transparent way to unlock liquidity without selling.
201
Learn more at leaden.io.
202
That's l-e-d-n.io.
203
Is your money really yours?
204
In many countries, governments freeze accounts, surveill transactions, and seize assets, not just from activists, but from everyday people you and me.
205
That's why the Financial Freedom Report exists.
206
This weekly newsletter from the Human Rights Foundation exposes how authoritarian regimes use money as a weapon and how you can fight back.
207
Every Thursday, uncover the latest on financial censorship, asset confiscation, runaway inflation, and the rise of state-controlled money.
208
Plus, real solutions Bitcoin.
209
I personally subscribe to the Financial Freedom Report, and it is one of the most high-signal emails I get each week.
210
Subscribe now for free at financialfreedomreport.org.
211
Here's one more listener comment from Bobby on X on my recent interview with BitWise's Jeff Park.
212
Bitcoin might be the only life vote in this sea of broken financial theories.
213
Short and sweet.
214
Tell us what you think.
215
Leave a comment in an episode on Farcaster, YouTube, or X, and I just might read it on a future episode.
216
Back to my conversation with Ryan.
217
Right now, Pump Funds' daily revenue is down since the typical day in January.
218
So I wondered what you thought of the timing of this race.
219
Let's all put on our investor caps for a second.
220
And then,, we're valuing this ICO.
221
People say, okay,, this is $4 billion.
222
They're making about $500 million in revenue.
223
It trades at eight times.
224
the revenue and you think that's fair or overvalued or undervalued and that's depending on whether you think the meme coins are sustainable that the volume is sustainable i have my personal skepticisms but i've also always been a skeptic of meme coins i think most people are skeptical of meme coins that being said the volumes over the past three months well after the inauguration well after the trump meme coin launch are still significantly higher than they were a year ago and in fact they've stabilized at that level and over the past month have increased and even within the past 30 days pump has generated 40 45 million dollars in revenue which is 500 million dollars annualized and this is well after we had that that big peak so i do wonder how resilient this is i do wonder how big the tam is for this right it is just not clear to me whether that's the case but yeah that's just something that i i think that people have to think through evaluating this what one thing that i i think is also it's interesting to think about is how could meme coins get bigger than trump launching it so i think that's also what a lot of people are thinking maybe that was the peak i just don't know maybe an alien launching a meme coin would be bigger but i'm not sure how you get bigger than Trump launching a meme coin.
225
So maybe, maybe it is pointing towards how people need our pump needs to find a a new driver of growth or this new ways to increase its meme coin volume because just getting a big name to go launch a meme coin is probably not it.
226
Yeah, and just to be clear, I would imagine that five years from now, that will look a blip,, because the whole category will have grown.
227
But I also imagine it'll look super different from how it does now.
228
But yeah, so we talked about different ways they could grow.
229
One thing that I did hear though, this is just from a little birdie, who said that they're currently offering multi-million dollar deals for buying at this $4 billion FTV with no vesting.
230
And I thought that sounded an interesting term.
231
So I wondered if that turns out to be true, what would that say to you?
232
I don't think that would be surprising because I think the original spirit of ICOs was that you would just buy a token and then the second starts trading, it's fully liquid.
233
So I wouldn't think that's the biggest deal so long as I guess whoever's being offered those terms are buying it at the same valuation as everyone else.
234
Okay.
235
Okay.
236
So I also wanted to ask, so Dee's tweeted a poll showing that 64% of respondents think that ICO is bearish for Solana and Solana memes in the short term.
237
Only 16% said bullish.
238
The other 20% said, show me the results.
239
So I just wondered what, out of curiosity, what do you think the impact will be on Solana and Solana memes?
240
Yeah.
241
So I think people are predictably jaded about pump.
242 I said, I think just asking for a billion dollars after some of the users launched or lost money and they already made seven million dollars.
243
I think people are just naturally going to be very skeptical and angry.
244
And that makes sense.
245
That being said, I struggle to see how, at least over the intermediate term, that this is not that this is bearish for Solana.
246
So I can see how maybe leading up to ICO, people do want to participate.
247
And mind you, they also might not even raise the billion dollars.
248, that's just a target.
249
But let's just assume that they get somewhere close.
250
People will probably sell some of their Solana exposure, whether that be meme coins or some indirect exposure to the meme coin trend.
251 people would buy all the DEX tokens and everything to get exposure.
252
People might sell those assets.
253
People might sell Seoul to fund their investment in the pump ICO.
254
So that could be some headwinds just for a little bit while this ICO is going.
255
That's short term.
256
I just think that if you start to zoom out beyond that, the largest application on Solana raising hundreds of millions, if not a billion dollars, to go and expand its business is probably a good thing for the ecosystem.
257
I think for one, it is a good outcome for investors in pump, which I think will lead to more investment coming into the ecosystem now that it's been validated with a big venture outcome.
258
There'll be more high-quality assets on Solana that are revenue generating that people would want to buy, which is good, so that it's not just meme coins that are only things that people trade.
259
I think people ought to trade assets that are high-quality and revenue generated.
260
And then, yeah, also I think that if people see that Pump raised a ton of money, that might encourage more people to want to go do ICOs as well.
261 if Pump can raise a billion dollars, why can't I go raise 50 million or 10 or whatever amount?
262
And that could also be very, very positive as well.
263
So, yeah, I just don't think it's as bad as people think it is.
264
And,, I saw some commentary about the fact that they are choosing to do this fundraising mostly through an ICO and only a portion through the airdrop.
265
Do you have an opinion on why they chose that or what you think the pros and cons of each method are?
266
So I think, with the exception of hyperliquid, most airdrops have not they haven't really been much benefit to projects.
267
I think you just give away a bunch of free money to people that may not care about your products or may have only been using your product because they expect an airdrop.
268
And the second that they get their money, they just leave.
269
And it's, well, why do we do that?
270
It's a waste.
271
And I think hyperliquid was one of the rare examples where the airdrop did very well.
272
But why did the airdrop do well?
273
It wasn't necessarily because people got the airdrop and held on and were all excited.
274
In fact, most people sold the hyperliquid airdrop.
275
I think the reason why it did well is because it was an amazing product that generated revenue.
276
And that is what got people excited.
277
And I think the airdrop was just more to demonstrate that, okay, we are aligned with our community and we're rewarding them for that that trading on the platform.
278
And it just it just fits into the Eagletarian vibes of building a decentralized project.
279
But it's a rare example.
280
So I don't think every project needs to do an airdrop.
281
And I think that, in fact, if you are going to do airdrop, you probably should only do it once you already have a product that people you need to give people a reason to hold the token otherwise everyone's just going to sell it anyways.
282
So but yeah, I think the airdrop could be good for the ecosystem because I said, as we discussed earlier, there's a lot of people that lost a lot of money just trading all these memes on Solana.
283
And if they get a little bit of a stimulus check from the airdrop, that could be good.
284
Maybe reignite some interest in the meme points out there.
285
All right.
286
So I did want to circle back to the competition aspect that you pointed out earlier, about believe.
287, going back to Moses' suite, he also mentioned Bonk Fund and virtuals.
288
He was saying the front ends could, Axiom or Photon could also, I don't know just where you think PumpFund needs to position itself to compete in this growing field or how it can fend off would-be competitors.
289
Yeah, yeah.
290
So I think at this point, about 40 to 50% of all volume on pump is routed through third-party interfaces or bots.
291
So what that means is that pump, the front end, is no longer the point of discovery for the pump ecosystem of assets.
292
And the risk here is that the more this trend continues, potentially the less control pump has over its own destiny.
293
Because if everyone starts trading on pump through third-party interfaces, and let's say one of the interfaces gets very large, well, what's stopping that interface from launching their own launch pad and just directing all their users there?
294
Right?
295
Because the actual launch pad infrastructure is relatively a commodity, right?
296
There's not really much that's different about the actual bonding curve mechanism.
297
Now, so far, we've seen a lot of teams attempt to do this, right?
298
In fact, we've seen one of Pump's partners or old partners, Radium.
299
Radium used to be where all the meme coins would graduate to and they start trading.
300
They rolled out their own launch pad.
301
And well, a lot of these launch passes haven't really made a dent into Pump's market share.
302
So there definitely is some network effects for Pump.
303
I think it's basically just an exchange, and exchanges have network effects at the very least is from the liquidity that's on the system.
304
But yeah, if you just extend this out over time, then they would likely need to solidify that relationship with the end user to protect themselves from competition.
305
And I do think that's one of the reasons why there is this push into social as a way of creating a more sticky product.
306
Because if you can build a social graph, it's the classic Chris Dixon quote: come for the network, or come for the tool, stay for the network.
307
And if you have this big social graph where you really watching the streams and your friends are on there, then it just makes you harder to switch over to a new competitor that just doesn't have that.
308
So I think that's one of the key ways that they can benefit us competition.
309
And maybe the other way would just be, I said before, expanding more generally so that you turn all these new competitors into features.
310
Out of curiosity, do either you or Synchrocy Capital plan to invest in this ICO?
311
No, we have no plans to invest in Gasco.
312
And are there any other comments that you want to make about PumpFund that I didn't ask you?
313
No, I just think it's once every once in a while, there are very polarizing events in the industry, and these tend to be exciting times.
314
So I'm looking forward to seeing how this plays out.
315
Can they raise a billion dollars?
316
How the market will react?
317
What they plan to do with the money.
318
For better or worse, Pump is one of the most well-capitalized and most relevant and most used products in the industry.
319
So I think it's important to watch what they're doing because it could have some pretty important implications for not just Solana, but this ecosystem at large.
320
Yeah,, I just realized that I don't think we know which platform they're using.
321
And so it'll just be interesting to see what a 2025 version of an ICO looks rather than a 2016, 2017, 2018 version.
322
Yeah, for sure.
323
Anyway, all right.
324
Well, thank you so much for coming on Unchained.
325
Yeah, thank you.
326
Coming up, we have some insight into how the CEOs at these Bitcoin and crypto treasury companies are going to be paid.
327
Stick around.
328
I'm here with executive editor Steve Ehrlich about an article that he wrote this week.
329
Steve, you covered the crypto treasury company's trend with an interesting angle, and it was about how the executives are being compensated.
330
So,, one of the first points that you mentioned is just what a significant premium some of these crypto treasury company stocks are trading at compared to their crypto holdings.
331
So, what factors beyond just executive influence do you think are driving these elevated valuations?
332
I think it really just comes down to FOMO, hype, excitement.
333
Crypto,, as we both know, Laura, and we've both covered, crypto loves a good fad, a new trend.
334
Used to be DAO tokens, security DeFi, NFTs, meme coins.
335
And it really seems today it is the crypto treasury companies.
336
Frankly, I'm a little surprised it took so long for so many people, for this many people, to start following the Michael Saylor playbook.
337
But that's really what's happening here.
338
And these companies are launching with sometimes nine or ten-figure bankrolls to pretty much buy Bitcoin and sit on it.
339, granted, there are some differences between the companies and their strategies.
340, they're promising to use capital markets efficiently to acquire Bitcoin or Crypt or Solana or Ethereum or XRP faster than some of the other competitors.
341
But it really just comes down to a lot of excitement over these particular companies.
342
And I think it also just is probably a little bit of a warning sign for investors that we're getting perhaps a little too frothy in all this.
343
Yeah, so one of the things that you talked about was how these companies are compensating executives.
344
And you had an example of one that follows a more conventional model.
345
And then you had another example of one that tries to be or is trying to be different and more innovative in how it's compensating its executives.
346
Can you talk us through those two examples?
347
Yeah, I was thinking about this question because it follows along with an earlier story that I wrote that explored potentially the risks that these types of companies can pose to the entire crypto ecosystem.
348
There are naturally going to be incentives for companies, these companies, to leverage their balance sheets, try to be creative in how they use the crypto that they hold to generate profits and value.
349
And it got me wondering: well, how are they incentivizing their executives?
350
Are they incentivizing them to be as risky as possible to grow at all costs?
351
Or are they trying to be a bit more measured in looking for sustainable long-term growth that aligns the interests of the shareholders and the executives?
352
And when I started looking into this, because you can look up SEC filings and you can see exactly, these are all publicly traded companies, so at least the ones that have been traded for a little while, the newest ones, Nakamoto 21, those haven't released this information yet, and those companies declined to provide it to us.
353
But, you can see that there's different ways of compensating executives.
354
One firm, Apexi, that is focused on Solana, their CEO makes, I believe, about $835,000 salary, but has an options grant that right now, I believe we record, we report is worth over $10 million in at least paper deeds, because he was able to purchase, I believe, it's $500,000 shares at a price of $2.28, which is where the stock was a day or two after they announced the Solana Treasury strategy.
355
And as of yesterday, when we wrote the story, the stock was up to $10.95.
356
So that's a huge gain in a very short period of time.
357
And his stock, his stock compensation is heavily weighted towards options.
358
Now, this can be good, but it's also risky because options are basically worthless until they're worth something.
359
Some other companies, Strategy, for instance, they compensate their executive in a different way.
360
They have cash bonuses for performance.
361
They have performance bonuses or stock bonuses based on meeting certain performance goals.
362
And then they also have restricted stock units, which are basically shares of equity that vest over time and then are given at the current market price.
363
So those stocks, theoretically, you can lose money on those stocks as well.
364
So there are these different options there.
365
So I found that the Apexi strategy was very risky.
366
But what the article centered on and what I found most interesting was another Solana company called the DeFi Development Corporation.
367
And they are issuing all of that.
368
And instead, they structured their executive bonuses around whether or not they are able to increase the amount of Solana they hold per share to meet certain thresholds by this time next year.
369
The bonuses are going to be behavior in cash.
370
And when I interviewed their CFO, John Hahn, for the story, he basically said that he felt that we should not benefit financially as individuals from just the price of the token we're holding appreciating.
371 there should be some measurable goal that investors can track and see how efficient we are as a marketing team.
372
So I found that particularly interesting.
373
And I wanted to then look at two things.
374
One, is this going to be a trend that other companies can follow?
375
And two, is this the best way to compensate executives?
376
Yeah, and there were some interesting numbers in there.
377
So,, they gave what the current Solana per share amount is, and they wanted to double it.
378
But then there were even incentives for doing more than that.
379
And it looked a bit challenging, but who knows?
380
Because they don't really know what this is going to look.
381
It's unclear.
382
What did you think?
383
It's a little, I think the goal that they have right now is to double the current number, which I think is 0.04 or something that.
384
But by the time people watch this video, that number could certainly change.
385
He told me that if they could not double that by this time next year, they did not deserve bonuses.
386
And then there's two tiers above that where I think they can max out at about 200% of the bonus.
387
I believe their CEO, Joseph Anradi, his salary is somewhere around in the mid-500,000, and his bonus would be, I think, 65% of his annual salary.
388
So he could get as much as two times that.
389
So it was pretty interesting.
390, there's always ways for people to massage the numbers and try to make them look where they need to be in order to reach certain goals.
391, the company could, I don't know, theoretically try to borrow Solana from someone else, and therefore, you don't tell the shareholders, but you have more Solana.
392, that's just, for instance.
393
I didn't ask them that.
394
There's certain, there's certain things that can be done.
395
But then at the same point, too,, some of these executives that have either restricted stock units or options,, they could also increase the share price through things buybacks, even if that's perhaps not the best use of corporate treasury, et cetera, to shrink the circulating supply and accelerate the price.
396
So there's lots of ways that all this stuff can be done.
397
There's no foolproof way.
398
But again, the assertion, at least from the DeFi Development Corporation executives, is that this is at least more straightforward and transparent than just giving a ton of option bonuses to executives that are launching these companies in the middle of the Fed.
399
Yeah, the one thing that I was thinking about was Jack Mahler's of 21 also has been talking about different metrics, Bitcoin per share and stuff, but we don't know whether or not that's going to be tied to his compensation.
400
So yeah, some of these companies right now, 21, Nakamoto, that have this buzz, they haven't revealed what they're going to do.
401
And to be clear, we asked, and they either declined to respond or do not respond at all because it's very easy and good to say this is how we're going to grade ourselves.
402
But that doesn't mean we'll find out how they really grade themselves when their compensation deals are publicized.
403
And last question, just,, when you look at Tradify, are there any comparisons there that you think would be helpful for how people should think about this?
404
Yeah, so in reporting this article, which I found really fun to do, I spoke with a number of experts in executive compensation, which is a much bigger field than I even imagined it was before, because there's so many things that go into it.
405
And, the best practices I saw were usually finding multiple different types of bonus structures tied sometimes to stock goals, sometimes tied to certain performance goals, so on and so forth.
406, one of the strategies that came out of my discussions mirrored what I said earlier about how strategy does it with their current CEO, Fang Li.
407
Basically, having a diversified set of equity bonuses so that you can manage the short or blend of short and long-term incentives.
408
But really, what came out once I explained how these companies work to these individuals, and they didn't really know anything about these companies before I brought it to their attention, they said the best thing you can do is try to figure out a metric that can judge or assess the effectiveness of the management team.
409
And the metric that kept coming up over and over again is premium to nav.
410
How much more is the company trading beyond just the value of the crypto on its balance sheet?
411
And Laura, we looked at these numbers.
412
They're all over the place right now, and especially for some of the new companies, because they are so new, it'll come down.
413
But some companies are in the 80s, some companies are in the one and a half, some companies are in the twos.
414
Strategies are at 1.7.
415
The Solana companies are around 5 or so.
416
And they're saying that they're going to be efficient at acquiring crypto.
417
They're going to do it faster than people can do it themselves.
418
And these executives say that's worth a premium in the stock price.
419
Well, how much?
420
That seems to be the metric that matters most to these people.
421
And in the traditional world, they said that this has a lot of similarity to something known as Price the Book, which, at least in terms of financial companies banks, et cetera, that looks at how much investors value the company beyond just the company's assets, deposits, et cetera, et cetera.
422
And I looked at at least one broad banking index, the KBW Banking Index, and the average price-the book ratio for that, for entities in that index is 1.44.
423
So I thought that was just an interesting benchmark.
424
But that seemed to be the metric that resonated with all the experts that I spoke to for the story.
425
Yeah, that Nakamoto one is training at 56 times.
426
Clearly, clearly, there are some inefficiencies right now.
427
All right, Steve.
428
Well, this has been super informative.
429
Thank you so much.
430
All right, thanks, Laura.
431
Don't forget, next up is the weekly news recap.
432
Today presented by Untamed producer Pam Majimdar.
433
Stick run for this week in crypto after this short break.
434
Markets are ripping, but not every pump is created equal.
435
You need to make sense of the action and what's coming next.
436
But where do you start?
437
Meet Focal by Falcon X, your AI-powered crypto analyst.
438
It's having a legion of experts at your fingertips, ready to break down market-making events, chart protocol TVL, and track ETF flows.
439
Get clarity in a world of noise with Focal.
440
Learn more at askfocal.com.
441
Welcome to this week's Crypto Roundup.
442
In today's recap, Circle goes public with a billion-dollar IPO.
443
Trump Media pushes deeper into digital assets with a Bitcoin ETF filing, and the SEC raises questions over staking-based ETFs.
444
We cover the Ethereum Foundation's sweeping restructure and new treasury strategy, a data breach disclosure controversy at Coinbase, and fresh partisan clashes over crypto legislation.
445
Plus, CZ proposes a new DEX, BitMEX exposes rare lapses by North Korea's Lazarus group, and China's Webus files plans for a $300 million XRP treasury.
446
Thanks for tuning in to the weekly news recap.
447
Let's begin.
448
Circle raises $1.1 billion shares soar in New York Stock Exchange trading debut.
449
Circle, the issuer of USDC, has completed an upsized initial public offering, raising nearly $1.1 billion through the sale of 34 million shares priced at $31 each.
450
The offering, which exceeded initial targets, gives the USDC issuer an initial market capitalization of $6.9 billion.
451
The IPO drew strong investor interest, with demand reportedly exceeding supply by more than 25 times.
452
Major participants include ARC Investment Management and BlackRock, the latter of which manages a reserve fund backing USDC that holds $53.3 billion in assets.
453
Circle's USDC currently holds a 29% share of the stablecoin market, with $61.5 billion in circulation.
454
The listing, led by JPMorgan, Citi, and Goldman Sachs, comes as Congress weighs new stablecoin regulations that could further legitimize the sector.
455
On Thursday, Circle's shares began trading on the New York Stock Exchange under the ticker symbol CRCL, opening at $69 and surging past $100 in early trading before ending the day just above $83 with a market capitalization close to $17 billion.
456
The listing marks Circle's long-awaited market debut following a previously failed SPAC attempt in 2021.
457
In related news, stablecoin startup Atticus, still in stealth, is nearing a $2 billion valuation with a new raise led by Onderill CEO Palmer Lucky and backed by Han Ventures.
458
Trump Media eyes Bitcoin ETF as wallet controversy unfolds.
459
Trump Media and Technology Group is expanding its footprint in the crypto space with a new filing to launch a spot Bitcoin exchange traded fund branded under the Truth Social name.
460
Submitted by New York Stock Exchange ARCA on behalf of Yorkville American Digital, the proposed ETF would track the price of Bitcoin with asset custody provided by Forrest Axe Trust, a crypto.com affiliated firm.
461
This initiative follows Trump Media's earlier announcement of a $2.5 billion Bitcoin treasury plan, part of a broader collaboration with Crypto.com to roll out digital asset products.
462
If approved, the Truth Social Bitcoin ETF would mark one of the most high-profile politically linked entries into the growing Bitcoin ETF market, which now manages over $130 billion in assets.
463
Meanwhile, a separate project involving a quote Trump wallet stirred confusion after it was promoted by NFT Marketplace Magic Eden.
464
A Trump organization spokesperson denied any involvement, telling Coindesk, quote, the Trump organization knows nothing about this project.
465
Donald Trump Jr.
466
also denied official ties to the wallet.
467
On Thursday afternoon, Bloomberg reported that the Trump family issued cease and desist letters to MagicEden and GetTrumpMemes.com over the unauthorized use of their name in the Trump wallet project.
468
SEC raises red flags over staked ETH and Sol ETF filings.
469
The US SEC has voiced concern that two proposed staking-based ETFs from REC's financial and Osprey funds may not qualify as legitimate exchange-traded funds under federal securities law.
470
The funds, which aim to provide exposure to staked Ethereum and Solana assets, had recently received effective registration status, but are now facing regulatory scrutiny.
471
In a letter, SEC staff questioned whether the ETFs, structured as C corporations, meet the legal definition of an investment company under the Investment Company Act.
472
The agency warned that current disclosures could be, quote, potentially misleading, adding that the funds may have, quote, improperly filed their registration statement.
473
In other more positive news, JP Morgan will soon allow clients to use crypto ETFs BlackRock's iShares Bitcoin Trust as collateral for loans, expanding crypto's role in wealth evaluations alongside traditional assets stocks and real estate.
474
Ethereum Foundation Restructures RD outlines treasury policy.
475
The Ethereum Foundation announced a reorganization of its research and development division, now rebranded as Quote Protocol, alongside a round of staff layoffs.
476
While the foundation did not disclose the number of affected employees, it confirmed that several team members would not be continuing in their roles.
477
The restructuring is part of a broader effort to streamline operations and prioritize critical development goals, including scaling Ethereum's base layer, expanding blob space for data availability, and improving overall user experience.
478
Quote, we feel these set us on a more responsive and effective path, the foundation stated in a blog post.
479
Simultaneously, the foundation published its first formal treasury policy, setting financial guardrails for managing its crypto and fiat assets.
480
Key targets include maintaining an operating expense buffer of 2.5 years and gradually reducing annual spending to 5% of total assets.
481
Quote, this policy reflects our conviction that 2025 to 26 are pivotal for Ethereum, said co-executive director Xiao Wei Wang, emphasizing long-term sustainability and support for privacy-focused DeFi protocols.
482
Democrats challenge SEC over withheld analysis on crypto bill.
483
House Democrats are accusing the US SEC of selectively withholding critical feedback on the Clarity Act, a proposed crypto market structure bill set for markup on June 10.
484
According to multiple Democratic staffers, the SEC has refused to provide standard written technical assistance, despite reportedly delivering the same information to Republican lawmakers.
485
Quote, this is supposed to be completely apolitical, one staffer remarked, expressing concern that the SEC's lack of cooperation could impact the bill's evaluation and lead to unintended regulatory gaps.
486
The Clarity Act seeks to redefine key securities laws and establish a formal framework for most digital assets, potentially shifting major oversight powers away from the SEC.
487
In response to the alleged lack of transparency, Representative Maxine Waters is preparing a letter urging SEC Chair Paul Atkins to deliver a bipartisan analysis.
488
Coinbase faces scrutiny over delayed data breach disclosure.
489
Coinbase is under fire for allegedly delaying disclosure of a customer data breach tied to a third-party support contractor in India.
490
According to a Reuters investigation, the breach occurred in January, when an employee at Task Us, a U.S.
491
outsourcing firm, was caught using her personal phone to photograph sensitive customer information on a work computer.
492
Former Task Us employees and a source familiar with the incident said Coinbase was informed of the breach immediately.
493
Despite this, the company did not disclose the breach until mid-May in a filing with the U.S.
494
Securities and Exchange Commission.
495
In the same filing, Coinbase revealed it had received a $20 million extortion demand related to the breach and declined to pay.
496
The incident contributed to a mass layoff of over 200 Task Us employees and is part of a wider security issue that Coinbase estimates could cost up to $400 million.
497
CZ calls for dark pool decks after Wynn liquidation controversy.
498
Finance founder Changpang CZiao has proposed a new type of decentralized exchange aimed at protecting traders from front-running and liquidation attacks.
499
The idea emerged shortly after crypto trader James Wynn lost nearly $100 million in a high-leverage position on Hyperliquid, triggering accusations that his visible positions were deliberately targeted in a coordinated, quote, liquidation hunt.
500
Quote, given recent events, I think now might be a good time for someone to launch a dark pool perp DEX, Zhao posted on X, referring to the need for more private trading infrastructure.
501
He criticized the full transparency of current DEXs, where user orders and liquidation points are publicly visible.
502
Zhao suggested using technologies such as zero-knowledge proofs and atomic swaps to build a non-custodial, trustless platform that delays or hides order visibility.
503
The proposal has sparked renewed industry debate on how to balance transparency with trader protection as institutional interest in DeFi continues to grow.
504
BitMEX uncovers security flaws in Lazarus hacker operations.
505
Researchers at Crypto Exchange BitMEX have identified major operational security failures within the Lazarus group, a North Korean state-backed hacking network linked to billions in stolen digital assets.
506
In a detailed report, BitMEX disclosed that one of the group's operatives appeared to have exposed their real IP address, which traced to Jiaxing China, a rare slip for the notoriously secretive organization.
507
Further investigation revealed access to a SUPA-based database used by the group, along with tracking strips that exposed internal tactics.
508
The findings suggest that Lazarus has fractured into specialized subgroups with differing technical capabilities.
509
Lower-tier teams focus on phishing and social engineering, while more advanced cells develop and deploy sophisticated malware.
510
WeBus taps XRP for $300 million treasury initiative.
511
China-based Webus International has filed a Form 6K with the SEC detailing plans to create a $300 million corporate treasury centered on XRP.
512
The move, disclosed on Tuesday, signals a chauffeur and hospitality firm's deepening involvement in blockchain-based payments.
513
According to the filing, WeBus intends to fund the initiative through debt financing, including loans and credit facilities, rather than issuing new shares.
514
The company also confirmed it is partnering with asset manager Samara Alpha to help structure its XRP reserve.
515
WeBus aims to integrate Ripple's payments network into its global operations to streamline cross-border settlements and improve booking transparency for its chauffeur services.
516
It also plans to expand its partnership with Tongcheng Travel Holdings to utilize the XRP ledger for international ride settlements and driver compensation.
517
This follows similar announcements by Vivo Power and WellGistics, marking a broader trend of institutional interest in Ripple's ecosystem.
518
And that's all.
519
Thanks so much for joining us today.
520
If you enjoyed this recap, go to unchangedcrypto.beehive.com, that is unchangedcrypto.beehive.com, and sign up for our free newsletter so that you can stay up to date with the latest in crypto.
521
Unchained is produced by Laura Shin with help from Matt Pilchard, Juan Aranovich, Margaret Curia, and me, Pama Jumdar.
522
The weekly recap was written by Juan Aranovich and edited by Stephen Ehrlich.
523
Thanks for listening.