--- METADATA START ---
Show: N/A
Episode: Quantum Computing: What, When,… - web3 with a16z crypto
Host: Sonal
GUESTS: Dan Benet, Justin Thaler
Guests: Dan Benet, Justin Thaler
Source URL: https://podcasts.apple.com/us/podcast/quantum-computing-what-when-where-how/id1622312549?i=1000706896699
--- METADATA END ---

 (upbeat music)
 - Hi, everyone.
 Welcome to this week's episode of Web 3 with A6 and Z,
 our show about building the next generation of the internet.
 I'm Sonal, and today's episode is all about quantum computing,
 the what, where, when, why,
 and also how it applies to blockchains.
 As always, we tease apart the signal
 versus the noise in science by press release,
 especially given ongoing quantum computing milestone
 announcements.
 We also discuss timelines for quantum computing
 becoming a reality, in particular when it comes
 to breaking classic computing-based cryptography systems.
 And so we also help answer questions
 on when do builders need to plan their switch
 to a post-quantum crypto world,
 what pitfalls to avoid there,
 and what the community needs to do
 to upgrade blockchains to be quantum resistant,
 which are unique from encryption-based systems.
 We briefly cover different approaches
 to post-quantum crypto,
 and also dig deeper towards the end on zero knowledge,
 or succinct proof systems and post-quantum crypto.
 Our expert guests are Stanford University Professor
 and Applied Cryptography Expert,
 and pioneer Dan Benet, also senior research advisor
 to A6 and C crypto, and Justin Thaler.
 Research partner at A6 and Z, Professor at Georgetown,
 and longtime expert in pioneer in interactive
 and CK proof systems.
 As a reminder, none of the following
 is investment business legal or tax advice,
 please see A6 and C.com/disclosures
 for more important information,
 including a link to our investments.
 Dan, I'll have you kick off with explaining quickly
 what is quantum computing at as much of a high level
 as you can, and why cryptographers worry about it.
 And Justin, I'll have you jump in after
 to share what quantum computers are good for.
 - You know, it gets kind of technical pretty quickly,
 but it's at a high level.
 We can say that the idea actually dates back
 to Richard Feynman.
 He realized that there are some quantum experiments
 that are very difficult to simulate
 on a classical computer.
 You'd like to do the computations
 to figure out what the quantum system does,
 but it just turned out to be very, very difficult to do.
 So he had this brilliant insight that said,
 "Ah, you know, maybe the reason it's difficult
 to simulate quantum experiments on a classical computer
 is because these quantum experiments
 are able to do computations that classical computers can't."
 And boy was he right.
 It turned out there really are things
 that you can do using a quantum experiment
 that you cannot do using a classical computer
 as far as we know.
 So for those who don't know,
 Richard Feynman, famous Nobel Prize-winning laureate,
 I mean, I remember he did those famous lectures in physics.
 - He was a phenomenal lecturer, yes.
 - Yeah, I wish we had him on this podcast
 'cause he was known to be the great explainer,
 but you are also a great explainer.
 So tell me more about why those experiments matter.
 - Yeah, so this is where it's a little bit technical,
 like how do you use a quantum experiment
 to calculate things that you can't do
 on a classical computer?
 I don't think I'll be able to go all the way down
 and explain it completely,
 but maybe it just gives a little bit of intuition.
 - Right, so I guess everybody's heard of shorting this cat.
 Yes, you've heard of shorting this cat.
 The cat is both dead and alive at the same time.
 We'd say that it's in a superposition of two states.
 It turns out quantum mechanics basically assigns
 what's called an amplitude to each one of these states.
 That alive has an amplitude,
 the dead has an amplitude,
 the amplitude is just some complex number.
 What matters is really that the numbers
 can be both positive and negative.
 You can have a positive or a negative number assigned
 to one state and a positive or a negative number
 assigned to the other state.
 That's kind of the fundamentals of how this works.
 And then when it gets interesting
 is if you don't just have one cat,
 but say you have a hundred cats
 and each one of them could be simultaneously dead or alive.
 So all of a sudden now,
 instead of just having two states,
 you have two to the power of one hundred states.
 So with sort of one hundred physical objects,
 you can simulate exponentially many states.
 Now that is nothing new.
 There are other ways to do that.
 Just as an example,
 if you flip a hundred coins,
 you define a probability space
 over an exponential size state.
 But what's new here,
 each one of these two to the hundred states,
 again, can have a positive or a negative amplitude.
 And it turns out we can manipulate
 this exponential size vector.
 Yeah, exponentially many states.
 We can manipulate all of them together
 in some new ways.
 For those listeners who are a bit more technical,
 I can say in particular,
 what's interesting is we can perform
 what's called a fast Fourier transform,
 this exponential size vector.
 And the fact that we can do that quickly
 is actually the basis of Schor's algorithm.
 And to be clear,
 this is the same Schor that's used in all cryptography.
 I mean, this is very obvious to you,
 but can you make that more clear?
 Yeah, so Schor's algorithm
 has lots of applications in cryptography.
 But the two that stand out
 is that Schor's algorithm
 is able to factor large numbers relatively quickly.
 It can factor large numbers in polynomial time.
 And it can also solve the discrete log problem
 in any group.
 These two problems,
 factoring and discrete log,
 they're the basis of many classical cryptosets.
 For example, RSA and Elgomile for encryption
 and RSA and ECDSA for signatures.
 So Schor's algorithm can both be used
 to break encryption systems
 and key exchange systems,
 like what's used in TLS on the internet.
 And Schor's algorithm can also be used
 to break classical signature schemes
 like ECDSA and RSA that are used in certificates
 and are also used in cryptocurrencies
 to ensure that people issue valid transactions.
 So if you have an implementation of Schor's algorithm
 on a large enough quantum computer,
 you can actually break these public key systems
 and then potentially eavesdrop on what's was said
 or potentially issue transactions
 that were never actually issued by the owner of the assets.
 People always wonder why is it that quantum computers
 are able to accelerate computation
 and solve certain problems faster
 than we can solve them on a classical computer.
 And it all boils down to the fact
 that we can do these fast Fourier transforms
 on these very large quantum states.
 These computers are very good
 at finding periods of functions, for example.
 And it turns out if you can find periods of functions,
 there are certain problems you can do
 that are harder to do on a classical computer
 as far as we know.
 So you might be wondering why they're so good
 at finding periods of functions.
 One way I like to explain it is,
 classically machines can emulate
 what's called a probabilistic computation
 where the machine sort of draws random bits
 as it's computing, but probabilities are always positive.
 There are numbers between zero and one,
 and you can kind of sum up probabilities
 and you get other probabilities.
 In effect, what happens in a quantum computer,
 some of these states are not just positive.
 They can be positive, they can be negative,
 they can even be complex numbers.
 But more importantly, they can be negative.
 And as a result, you get these interference patterns
 where you can have sums of numbers.
 If you sum a positive number and a negative number,
 all of a sudden you get a negative number
 or a very small result.
 So you get constructive and destructive interference.
 And it turns out that actually is very useful
 for computing things that we can't do
 normally on a classical computer.
 In particular, like we said,
 it's very good for finding periods of functions.
 And that has a lot of cryptographic implications.
 Now, I don't know if this is helpful to people,
 but intuitively why they're able to do things
 that we can't do classically yet
 is exactly because of these constructive
 and destructive patterns.
 - Amazing.
 I've never heard the dots connected that way.
 - Quantum computing is often sort of caricatured
 and popsized as giving people the ability to do,
 you know, insane amounts of work in parallel.
 And that's really not true.
 We believe that they can't like solve arbitrary
 search problems all that much faster
 than laptops can today, like maybe a little bit faster,
 but not a crazy amount faster.
 So that is a major misconception.
 But, you know, everyone I think in the community
 knows that's a misconception,
 even though it persists anyway.
 There are a lot of open questions still
 about what problems quantum computers
 actually would be useful for.
 One thing we've known for several decades now,
 they would be useful for,
 which is the main topic for today,
 is that they would break a lot of the cryptography
 that blockchains and internet commerce uses today.
 So that's the biggest concern.
 It's actually not clear exactly what they'd be useful for
 outside of that yet.
 There's a lot of hype around, you know,
 AI and optimization.
 And I think that's much less understood
 than many people are led to believe.
 - One question for you is,
 when people talk about quantum computing advances
 in the news and the media,
 and a lot of these projects like at Google
 and Microsoft and big companies
 are doing, you know, quantum computing work,
 it's not clear to me, like,
 what are they actually building?
 Like what it is, like, what is it, the thing?
 And the other question I have maybe connected to this
 is like, are they just working on like noise reduction?
 Are they actually building things
 that you can actually run quantum algorithms?
 Like, what are we talking about
 when these projects out there in the world are doing
 when they're trying to build a quote quantum computer?
 What is the it?
 - So blockchain purposes,
 I think what's important is a cryptographically relevant
 quantum computer.
 And this is a quantum computer
 that can run Shores algorithm
 that can break these cryptosystems
 based on factoring or discrete log.
 The path to go there has many, many steps along the way.
 I'm really just, you know, hitting like step one,
 you know, today.
 And we, you know, we need to kind of scale
 in multiple directions to be able to run something
 like Shores algorithm.
 So one is we need more quantum bits.
 That's like, you know, information.
 - Yeah.
 - The quantum computer can operate on.
 Yeah.
 And we need that information to kind of be stable
 and not like turn into just garbage noise
 as the computer works.
 And so it's both like kind of more qubits
 that's like quantum information
 and the ability for that information
 to actually persist and not degrade.
 And that's like noise reduction.
 The other thing you can say is that there's a number
 of different approaches that different teams
 are pursuing to achieve this.
 I'm not an expert on this, but you have like trapped ions,
 trapped topological quantum computing.
 There's several.
 And they're each making great progress.
 They're each also kind of in their infancy
 to varying degrees.
 And so progress on one does not imply progress
 on the other, but only one of them needs to succeed
 in the end for, you know, all of our crypto systems
 that we use today to be broken.
 - That was a great explanation, Justin.
 This is maybe a good segue to the news.
 And what do people mean when they say quantum supremacy,
 which also comes up?
 Is that just the number of qubits?
 Like what is the thing that they're really trying to achieve
 when they say that?
 - So quantum supremacy refers to a quantum computer
 that solves some task and it could be a completely
 useless task significantly faster
 than any non-quantum computer could.
 Ideally, the quantum computer solves the task
 in a matter of milliseconds.
 And we think any laptop would take billions of years,
 you know, some kind of gap that big.
 But a key point here is the task is allowed to be easy
 for quantum computers and hard for laptops.
 And it can be totally useless
 as long as it achieves that separation.
 So, you know, I think this was one of the sources
 of confusion that followed Google's Willow announcements
 is they announced a task that they thought
 this ship Willow was six Septillion times faster
 than any classic computer could be for.
 But a lot of people didn't get the message
 that that task is just specifically designed
 in a contrived way to reach that six Septillion number.
 - Well, actually, I just want to push back on that,
 though, to make sure we understand this.
 And this is super helpful for teasing apart
 the signal versus the science by press release,
 which is obviously the task.
 So to your point, okay, there is an element of,
 quote, teaching to the task, like you're designing
 this task, which is designed to be beat,
 which is designed to be able to say
 we've achieved this milestone.
 That said, is there a value?
 And Dan, do you think that they're doing this
 because they can progress?
 And that's the way they start?
 Or it's so ridiculously arbitrary,
 or just so far off that it's almost silly to do that.
 Like, just to kind of understand a little bit more
 about what we're talking about here.
 - Yeah, so first of all, these tasks,
 what they are is typically sampling
 from some distribution that you get a sample
 and that something would have been very difficult
 for a classical computer to do.
 But one question is, you know,
 is quantum computing at all possible, right?
 I mean, maybe quantum physics is wrong.
 Maybe nature doesn't work in the way we think it works.
 So let's zoom out for one second.
 Quantum mechanics is a theory that's been with us
 for over a hundred years.
 It's extremely successful.
 If you believe that quantum mechanics is correct,
 then quantum computing should work.
 It's just an engineering problem, just in big quotes.
 It's just an engineering problem.
 The theory basically predicts
 the quantum computing should work.
 - That's amazing.
 - And so the fact that we can do these experiments
 and actually even do things that we can't do
 on a classical computer,
 that's a very interesting fact in its own right,
 just to kind of validate the fact
 that the approach overall is at all feasible, right?
 There's something that a quantum computer
 can do that a classical computer can't do.
 - Yes.
 - For one thing that's very interesting here
 is exactly because a classical computer
 cannot do this task,
 it's very difficult to verify
 that the result of the quantum experiment
 actually gave us is actually correct, right?
 That classical computer will take a siptillion amount
 of time to verify this was done correctly.
 So I think it's really interesting
 that we can actually presumably do things
 that we can't do on a classical computer.
 But just instead of there's actually a long way to go.
 - Right, so Justin, you're basically saying
 it's not pure vapor, they did something,
 they're meeting a step,
 but there's a big gap in how many more steps
 there are to go and what it's gonna take to get there.
 - Yeah, exactly.
 And I would add two things.
 So one is, I would call this like step zero
 for an interesting quantum system,
 where if you can't meet this goal,
 it's not, you know, you can't talk about quantum benefits.
 And the second thing I'd say is this goal has sparked,
 you know, a tremendous amount
 of valuable scientific work as people have tried
 to figure out like which problems could demonstrate
 quote quantum supremacy in a reasonable amount of time,
 what we can build it.
 So just a lot of interesting science.
 Where you run into issues is where the press releases
 convey the impression that we're like closer
 to an actually useful quantum computer,
 much less a cryptographically relevant one than we are.
 So I mean, there were two related but distinct aspects
 of the Google willow announcement.
 Well, one was the quantum supremacy
 in the six septillion number,
 where a lot of people reading the announcement kind of
 miss that the task that the six septillion speed up
 was a contrived one specifically designed
 to exhibit a six septillion speed up.
 The other aspect of the announcement
 was achieving some kind of quantum error correction
 for what's called a logical qubit.
 - I'm gonna just quote your summary for that new paper
 and have you quickly parse it.
 It shows that they used about 100 physical qubits
 to form a distant seven surface code.
 So basically 50 data qubits plus 50 measurement qubits
 to encode a single logical qubit that can then idle,
 i.e. not anything useful or logically useful
 for 100 cycles with acceptable error.
 - There, the clarification I was pointing out
 to our research and engineering group
 was that this logical qubit,
 it's not capable right now of actually doing
 any computation, right?
 So this is still a major milestone
 from an engineering and technological perspective
 that they were able to achieve this level
 of stability and error correction for this qubit.
 But the error is very high still.
 And on top of that, the qubit just sits there
 in idols, right?
 There's no one able to like set the qubit
 to a particular value and then use that value later
 in a computation.
 It's just sitting there and not degrading, that's it.
 - I would add that a little bit, which is the impressive
 part was exactly the fact that they were able to get
 to the point where error correction now kicked in.
 Basically, they managed to get the physical error rate
 low enough that they could apply error correction
 and then get a logical qubit.
 That was not possible before, that was a big step.
 Now, for now, of course, they only got one qubit,
 which is not enough to do much interesting
 and how there's a matter of scaling it, right?
 So so far, it took them 105 physical qubits
 to apply error correction and get one corrected bits.
 But the fact that they demonstrated the error correction
 can be applied, that is a fairly significant step.
 I think it's an important milestone in development
 of quantum computing.
 - Yeah. - Of course, by itself,
 it's not useful, but now we have to scale it.
 - And the other small point to mention is,
 our understanding of what classical computers
 are capable of doing is always getting better, right?
 So I think Google first claimed quantum supremacy
 five years ago and it turned out they hadn't achieved it
 because shortly after the announcement came out,
 better classical algorithms were found for the same task.
 And that's wonderful when we improve our understanding,
 even if that improved understanding means
 the original claim didn't hold up.
 This is all how science should work.
 The problematic part is if it leads people to switch over
 in settings that they don't have to switch so soon
 and they do, and then something goes wrong
 because they switch too soon and they switch too soon
 because they thought we were close to a cryptographically
 relevant quantum computer that we actually are,
 that's where you run into problems.
 - Right, that's where it really has implications
 for builders making judgments based off this news.
 So we'll definitely dig into that
 and then I'll be a big focus,
 especially for the blockchain community.
 But before we go into that,
 let's do one more news announcement
 'cause there was also the Microsoft news.
 What was really different about their announcement
 from the Google Willow one was this notion
 of a topological qubit.
 And I'd love to have you just quickly say
 'cause we are talking about quantum bits and qubits.
 What was Microsoft's announcement?
 What was the there, there?
 What was the signal versus noise?
 And what is the topological qubit?
 - So the way I would put it is the topological
 approach of quantum computing is a distinct one
 from what Google Willow is pursuing,
 which roughly kind of seeks to make qubits
 that are intrinsically more stable.
 And therefore the error correction stuff
 doesn't have to work as hard or as much overhead.
 And this is well beyond my expertise.
 And I've heard that topological computing,
 just if it actually is buildable,
 largely eliminates the need for error correction,
 maybe that's too strong a statement.
 Now, Microsoft actually, this sort of a running theme
 of major announcements being made in the past
 that then had to be walked back a bit.
 Topological computing is based on something called
 the Majorana particle.
 - Yeah, yeah, Majorana zero modes or something.
 - Yeah, and Microsoft thought that they had confirmed
 it's a theorized particle whose existence
 has not been confirmed yet.
 And several years ago, Microsoft announced
 that they had confirmed it.
 And then it turns out that that was a little bit
 of an overclaim, which is of course,
 how science works all the time.
 And this is not, you know, any kind of blame game.
 So the new announcement is kind of putting us once again
 back where we thought we were several years ago.
 - Yeah, yeah, I think, no, this is good.
 I mean, Google is going down the superconducting
 qubits approach, which is one approach,
 which is quite noisy.
 And, you know, they have to get the noise down
 to be able to do error correction.
 Microsoft is taking a different approach,
 which like Justin says is gonna be more resistant to noise.
 So it'll be here to build and scale
 and keep the decoherence time sufficiently high.
 So we can actually do long computations.
 For what I understand, the nature paper is old.
 The nature paper was submitted a year ago.
 And it doesn't quite contain evidence
 that they actually achieved this, am I around a state?
 - That's right.
 The editors actually even put a note and a qualifier
 in the paper.
 - Yeah, hopefully they'll, they will be compelling evidence
 to say that they achieved it.
 And then that's another path to building
 a scalable computer.
 Of course, again, this is if they've achieved one.
 So the next step would be can they scale it up
 and build multiple qubits.
 So this is the beginning of a very, very long process.
 - By the way, we're saying that there are a couple
 of large companies investing in this effort.
 So IBM, Microsoft, Amazon, and so on.
 There's a whole bunch of startups
 that are investing in these efforts.
 IronCue, Regitti side.
 They're all taking very different approaches.
 And this is great, right?
 There's like four or five different approaches
 to trying to build these stable qubits.
 We have to explore all of them.
 And by the way, it's pretty important
 to be built in the US, yeah?
 And so we have to explore all these approaches
 to building it.
 And so I think that all these groups should be commended.
 - I agree.
 - And you know, science progresses in small steps.
 And it's wonderful to kind of be able to live through it.
 - I was gonna say when you said that, you know,
 keep in mind that there's all these people
 trying these incredibly different approaches,
 it made me think of these like, in my mind,
 glory days, like hundreds of years ago
 when people are trying to figure out how to fly,
 how to drive, how to do anything.
 Like you don't even know where to start.
 So you all have to take these like
 tremendously divergent approaches
 so you get to the things.
 So I do think we're living in a very exciting moment.
 Back to the signal to noise on the Microsoft announcement.
 I will point out in IEEE Spectrum,
 they had a very funny article
 based on the retraction that Microsoft had to do in 2018
 about the Major Ana Quasi Particle.
 And the headline is major parentheses,
 Ana, kind of a play on Major Ana,
 but major back battling.
 Microsoft backed quantum computer research retracted.
 Controversial evidence for elusive, hypothesized,
 Quasi Particles debunked.
 So do you know why they retracted
 and now they're making a different claim
 about topological qubits?
 Yeah, I think the issue is just,
 is there enough evidence to say
 that they achieved these Major Ana states, right?
 It's not the attitude that before,
 it turns out there wasn't insufficient evidence.
 And even in the Nature article,
 there is not enough evidence to say did it.
 And so that's where it is.
 Great. And do you want to say anything really quick
 about the other approaches that the other groups are taking?
 So I did even Google are both taking
 the superconducting approach.
 Those seem to work, they're just quite noisy,
 but those are fairly well understood.
 Okay, great. Yeah.
 I find it very interesting,
 because there's always like this really interesting tension.
 This is, I mean, this is an abstract concept,
 but just something I always think about
 when I think about technological process.
 You know, it's not linear,
 but if you think about it in a linear way,
 that there's these moments where people can move forward,
 move forward, move forward,
 they move backward, they move forward,
 they move backward, they move forward.
 So they might be accelerating along a certain way,
 and then they hit sudden like almost insurmountable block.
 And then there are other approaches where in science
 where you can move much more slowly in the beginning
 and it feels almost daunting and impossible.
 And then you actually have an easier path
 later on in the trajectory.
 So now this is a great segue to talk about
 what are the timelines we're talking about
 and this will lay us up for the next section
 where we really will talk about
 what blockchain builders need to do.
 So let's talk timelines.
 Justin, do you want to kick it off with NIST?
 Yeah, okay.
 So NIST put out a document in I think the last few months.
 I think it's in like the request for comments stage still,
 but that roughly said they plan to stop supporting
 elliptic curve based cryptographic schemes
 as well as RSA based cryptographic schemes.
 These are things that if quantum computers
 could be built, they would attack and break.
 Stop supporting in five years
 and fully deprecate in 10 years of 2030
 and then 2035.
 They did not actually discuss any timelines
 or predictions for a graphically relevant quantum computer.
 They just discussed what one they would basically
 try to do away with non quantum resistance cryptosystems
 in government systems or whatever they have purview over.
 One thing I want to clarify there
 is that NIST has several considerations
 that they mentioned explicitly in the document
 that other applications like blockchains may not have.
 And so I'll mention two of them.
 So one is store now the crypto later attacks
 to like the government wants to keep some information secret
 for 70 years or something.
 And you know, China today is probably
 hoovering up all encrypted US government communications
 that they can get.
 They can't read it today.
 They'll just sit on it until sometime in the future
 they have a quantum computer that can decrypt it
 and then they'll read it all.
 And if that computer just comes along 30 years from now,
 well, they'll learn all the secrets that we send today,
 30 years from now, and that'll still be valuable to them.
 Blockchains don't have to deal with that.
 - So that's the store now.
 Do you crypto later use that?
 - Yes. - Okay.
 - Okay, so that's one thing.
 The other thing NIST has to worry about
 is some devices go out there in the world
 and basically can never be updated.
 So, you know, some box out there
 is taking sensitive measurements,
 I don't know, Dan would know more than me,
 and sending those measurements back to home base
 encrypted.
 And, you know, once that box is out there in the world,
 you just can't change its encryption scheme.
 And maybe that box will be out there for 50 years
 or something, right?
 So those are two things that blockchains
 don't necessarily have to worry about.
 Now, blockchains, we kind of do want them to ossify
 eventually, but you ask different people
 what eventually means and they'll give you different
 timelines.
 And so blockchain ossification is a thing,
 but that's very different than putting a physical box
 out there in the world that literally
 you'll never be able to access again.
 So that's been this document.
 In terms of timelines, NIST didn't comment
 on predicted timelines.
 You can try to make inferences.
 If you want to keep a secret like 70 years,
 that is consistent potentially with NIST
 thinking that a cryptographically relevant quantum
 computer won't be around for 80 years, right?
 'Cause they'll switch 10 years and then they want
 the secret to stay secret 70 more years than that.
 But anyways, there's a lot of guesswork there.
 - Just to clarify, so we are all talking about NIST.
 I don't know if everyone knows that they're the
 National Institutes of Standards and Technology,
 and they're part of the US Department of Commerce.
 They do all the measurement and important standards.
 Like, I remember coming across them
 when we were talking about nanoparticles
 and nano computing back in the day.
 So that's what they do.
 Just quick questions on that.
 Is it possible NIST, like, do they know maybe
 from the NSA that that's a potential?
 Do those government agencies talk to each other?
 And is that why maybe they are sick?
 I mean, is there any context there that they may have?
 - So Dan will know the history of interaction
 between NIST and the NSA more than I have.
 There has been controversy before with the NSA
 potentially having input to that they shouldn't have had
 on NIST standards and wielding that input
 in a way that they shouldn't wield it.
 I'd say in this case, we certainly cannot rule out
 the possibility that NIST or people NIST talks to
 have non-public information about the state
 of quantum computing engineering.
 You know, I would personally speculate that, you know,
 enough tech giants are working on this,
 that the public is, you know, probably at the same state
 or in front of the government,
 but just speculating here.
 - Look, I mean, the fundamental issue
 is that it takes a long time to change
 how our encryption algorithms work, right?
 So if they're thinking, if we move away from RSA
 and discrete log type systems,
 it's going to take a long time.
 You know, this happened to us before with hash functions.
 There was this popular hash function in SHA-1
 that people knew was going to get broken
 and we need to move away from it.
 And to figure out who is using SHA-1,
 just to find out which systems are using SHA-1
 and need to be updated.
 That actually took quite a long time.
 And in fact, even now, even though we know now,
 SHA-1 is completely broken,
 there are still systems that use SHA-1
 and it's very difficult to change.
 So given that it's so difficult
 to change so many deployed systems,
 they're saying the thinking is,
 we have to start at some point so we can have a target.
 The number that is being thrown out is 2035.
 And this is not just, this is the NSA and SISA.
 There are many federal agencies that are saying
 by 2035, effectively, if you want to sell equipment
 or software or devices to the government,
 it has to have post-quantum security built into it.
 - So that's 10 years.
 - So the reality is this is probably two shorts.
 Yeah, they're still being very optimistic
 and they're thinking they'll be able to switch by 2035.
 Probably not going to happen.
 It's probably going to take longer than that,
 just based on what happened with hash functions
 did it took longer than that to switch.
 But you have to start somewhere.
 They're setting up a target
 to get everybody thinking about the problem
 and some sense to start the process.
 By the way, the technical term is harvest now decripulator,
 HMDL, these are called HMDL attacks,
 harvest now decripulator.
 Now, I totally agree.
 I mean, the fear is, as Justin said,
 somebody might be collecting encrypted data
 and then they'll be able to decrypt it
 in whatever 20, 30, 40, 50 years, potentially.
 So they're really, for encryption purposes,
 if you talk about encryption of TLS,
 there is kind of a need to start thinking about
 how to do post-quantum security.
 - And sorry, just acronyms,
 when you said TLS, you mean transport layer security
 on internet systems, communication, yeah.
 - Yeah, it really all that protects web traffic
 and many other things.
 Now, what's interesting is even the fact
 that NIST has standardized post-quantum algorithms,
 there's still a lot of work in seeing exactly
 how to integrate this into TLS
 so that the web can start to benefit from these things.
 The IETF moves very slowly.
 It takes a long time.
 It's all consensus-based.
 People keep making arguments in one way or another.
 So it takes a very long time for these standards
 to even reach security.
 So it's gonna take a while.
 By the way, there's a big debate now.
 Should we directly deploy these post-quantum systems
 or should we deploy them in conjunction
 with pre-quantum systems
 to both pre and post at the same time
 so we don't harm security?
 So yeah, there are debates both directions.
 That's not even clear.
 One thing that I would say that
 for the folks in the blockchain spaces,
 the Ethereum Foundation has taken a very productive approach
 here in that they are obviously using
 a lot of pre-quantum systems,
 but they make sure that for everything they deploy,
 they actually have a post-quantum equivalent.
 I'm not talking about building a quantum computer.
 I'm talking about building an equivalent version
 of a cryptographic system that they want to deploy,
 building one that is gonna be secure,
 even if a quantum computer appears.
 So if they need to move quickly
 from pre-quantum to the post-quantum,
 they know how to do it.
 They're not deploying the post-quantum stuff just yet,
 but it's good to have it in your pockets.
 So I thought that would be a very mature way
 of doing things that also help the research community,
 because for every advanced primitive they want to build,
 they challenge us to come up
 with a post-quantum version of it
 just so they have it in their pocket.
 So there are lots of things that need to happen before 2035.
 And if we wait 10 years to even get the process started,
 it's gonna take so much longer to do the transition.
 But there is a transition.
 - Yeah, I see.
 And how can you make something post-quantum secure
 if you don't have a quantum computer?
 - Good.
 So the two things that are unrelated to one another.
 So post-quantum cryptography refers
 to a regular cryptographic system
 that you can run on your laptop, on your phone.
 But we believe it is secure even against an adversary
 that has access to a large-scale quantum computer.
 Pre-quantum cryptography is a classical cryptographic system,
 but one that can be broken by an adversary
 that has access to a large-scale quantum computer.
 So RSA and elliptic curves kind of fall
 in the pre-quantum category.
 And in the post-quantum category,
 we have a couple of candidates.
 This is where lattice-based cryptography,
 code-based cryptography, hash-based cryptography,
 and so on.
 - Got it.
 But I don't want to take for granted
 that everyone listening actually knows
 how blockchains work.
 Like, why don't blockchains have to worry about it?
 - Yeah, however this now decrypt later applies to encryption.
 Blockchains not using encryption.
 Blockchains use signatures.
 So HNDL by and large does not apply to blockchains.
 Of course, there are niche cases where they do use encryption.
 By and large, they do not use encryption.
 They use signatures.
 So HNDL is just not applicable.
 - So this is when you want to send your Bitcoin
 to another address, you authorize the transaction.
 And that tells the blockchain,
 you and not someone who wants to steal your Bitcoin
 is agreeing for the Bitcoin to be transferred, right?
 And the digital signature schemes that we use today,
 and that Bitcoin uses, for example,
 as Ethereum and other blockchains,
 a quantum computer in the hands of an adversary
 could forge digital signatures.
 And that means someone who wants to steal your Bitcoin,
 you know, if you don't change the digital signature scheme
 before they have a quantum computer,
 will just submit a transaction.
 It'll look like you authorized it,
 what in fact it was the thief,
 and the thief will now have all your Bitcoin,
 even though you didn't authorize it.
 So that is the most basic place, like the digital signatures,
 that blockchains ultimately need to switch
 to post quantum photography.
 There are other places that blockchains use cryptography.
 Bitcoin is based on proof of work
 that is based on a problem that requires a lot of work,
 a lot of computational effort to solve.
 We can talk about to what extent
 quantum computers change that.
 You know, Ethereum and other blockchains
 are trying to deploy zero-knowledge proofs
 for scalability and privacy.
 We can talk about to what extent.
 So each individual cryptographic primitive
 there's a whole different story to unearth about,
 do they have to worry about quantum computers,
 for what reasons, to what extent.
 The story is very different for each of them.
 - Great, got it.
 - So now I'll just say a third thing
 that I would say blockchains don't have to deal with.
 It's just that the process that NIST has to worry about
 for upgrading is like so much slower
 than what blockchains today have to worry about.
 - So every time Ethereum wants to change something
 about how people process new transactions,
 whether it's what digital signatures scheme is used,
 people check that the transaction's being processed
 are actually authorized by the relevant party and so forth.
 This is done via a hard fork,
 which basically means like everybody on the Ethereum network
 just agrees to make the change and they all do it, right?
 And as of today, there is like a hard fork
 roughly once a year or something
 and you have to be very careful about the process.
 It's not that easy to coordinate
 but it's doable, it's happening once a year.
 Bitcoin, it's very hard to make changes to Bitcoin now.
 And so the transition into post quantum digital signatures
 or whatever I'd say is more of a concern
 for Bitcoin than anyone else
 'cause it's just harder to get that network
 that would agree on major changes.
 Whereas NIST has to get the standard making bodies
 to agree and then every single entity in the world
 that's deploying these protocols
 that the standard making bodies set the standards for
 to upgrade is just a, it's a much more,
 it's a more decentralized environment
 than these decentralized blockchains are today, if you will.
 But yeah, that's the situation.
 - Great.
 So basically, because blockchains use signatures,
 they aren't as vulnerable in some of these other things.
 And then to Justin, your point,
 you're adding that they can upgrade faster
 than like a lot of these other groups can.
 So they have less issues on that front.
 - Yes, and the other thing I'd add to Dan's comment
 is like, let's say I authorize a blockchain transaction
 today using elliptic curve based digital signature scheme.
 As long as that authorization is somehow time stamped
 so you knew it came now, it doesn't matter
 if there's a quantum computer 30 years from now.
 That quantum computer can't go back in time 30 years
 and like steal my money.
 So like as long as you know,
 this happens a lot in blockchains is ZK, it's a case as well,
 that as long as you know, there's no quantum computer
 at the time the cryptography was used,
 there's no kind of retroactive break 30 years
 in the future.
 You have to be a little careful,
 but yeah, you can typically prevent this.
 Whereas with encryption, it's like China decrypts
 some message that the NSA sends today.
 If they decrypt it 30 years from now,
 that's still a problem.
 - Right, okay, if you guys.
 So now we're about to switch into what are the actual
 implications to blockchains and then what builders
 have to think about before we do.
 I still wanna hear your guys' projected timelines now
 'cause we talked about what NIST
 and the US government is pushing towards.
 And obviously, Dan, you mentioned this briefly,
 there is a race around the world.
 I mean, China, people are really working hard
 to make this happen.
 It's like the next base race.
 So the US government has put this mandate,
 but Dan, you're saying that even if they're saying
 by 2035, it's probably gonna take longer
 and we're not even there yet.
 So where do you guys fall on the timelines?
 - Yeah, so, okay, first point that's kind of interesting
 is that in some sense, blockchains are a great bug bounty
 for this.
 So when somebody finally builds a quantum computer,
 it's quite possible that they might use it actually
 to start moving money around on a blockchain
 without the owner's permission.
 So once we start hearing about people complaining
 that money is moving, tokens are moving
 without the owner's permission,
 maybe that's kind of a good indication
 that a quantum computer has been built,
 at least if it's an arc real.
 So in some sense, once a quantum computer is built,
 well, a cryptographically relevant quantum computer is built,
 we'll know about it because there's this bug bounty out there.
 So that's one interesting point.
 Now 2035 is, again, when the expectation
 for using post quantum crypto kicks in,
 that doesn't mean that's when the quantum computer
 will be built.
 - Absolutely, but one of the things
 that we've been talking about in this episode
 is like what's real, what's fact, what's fiction?
 Let's tease apart the signal from the noise,
 especially when it comes to, oh my God, quantum computing
 or when we need to be ready for a post quantum crypto world
 is here, like when does this happen?
 When do we plan?
 How do we think about it?
 Dan, how would you give us the timelines?
 - Yeah, so everybody always wants to know
 when are we gonna have a large enough quantum computer
 to run Shor's algorithm
 and actually affect deployed cryptography.
 So nobody has a crystal ball.
 We don't really know how quickly
 this technology is gonna develop.
 So predictions are very dangerous to make.
 I don't wanna just make up numbers out of thin air.
 So I try to be a little bit scientific about it.
 And so one way to do a calculation
 is you can say, well, to have a cryptographically
 relevant quantum computer, the estimate is today
 you need around 10 million qubits.
 Some recent results that say maybe 10 million
 is not quite the right number, but let's, again,
 for the ballpark, let's go with this 10 million figure.
 - If we use Moore's law as a guiding stick for this,
 Moore's law says that computing power doubles
 every 18 months.
 So let's suppose quantum computing power doubles
 every 18 months.
 The reality is that we need something like 10
 to 15 doublings of what we have today
 in order to affect cryptography.
 So today we're on the order of like 100 physical qubits.
 We need many, many more to affect cryptography.
 If we need 10 to the 15 doublings,
 that would mean that we are 15 to 22 years away
 from a large enough computer that might affect cryptography.
 But when you plug in these numbers,
 you get somewhere around 20 years.
 Yeah, this could be way off, could be less,
 could be more, we don't really know,
 but at least calculate the number.
 - Yeah, and you're using Moore's law,
 which I know you're just using as like
 some kind of grounding to do some kind of estimate,
 but let's obviously not also forget
 that we're talking quantum here,
 which is entirely different behaviorally
 than anything Moore's law has modeled off.
 And so you could hit an unexpected complexity break.
 So things could become crazy,
 like a new thing can happen at a certain threshold.
 We don't know.
 So that could be another thing
 that would maybe even slow that down.
 - Yeah, we don't know if Moore's law
 is gonna apply to quantum computing.
 In the classical computing industry,
 every doubling introduced completely new applications.
 - So Jessen, where do you fall
 on your estimates of timing?
 - Yeah, so I mean, I just say,
 I think Dan's methodology is about as good as anything else.
 But you can look at the roadmaps
 that the major projects put out.
 And I guess in a sentence,
 I would say none of the roadmaps suggest
 that we'll be close to a cryptographically relevant
 quantum computer within 10 years.
 And typically these roadmaps are overly optimistic
 and while it's possible that some breakthrough happens
 and you actually do better than the roadmap
 most likely will be even slower.
 I can also raise some subtlety in various announcements
 that I actually only learned a bit out recently.
 So Dan talked about already the difference
 between physical qubits and logical qubits.
 Logical qubits are like some error corrected thing
 you can control if physical qubit takes many physical qubits
 to get the error corrected thing you can control.
 There's another distinction
 that I actually wasn't familiar with, which is the following.
 So to run Shor's factoring algorithm
 on a quantum computer.
 Yeah, I think you need 1500 to several thousand
 logical qubits, something like that.
 And so I've been tracking projections
 from these projects about how many years
 so X logical qubits, okay.
 But actually it turns out that when people
 report logical qubits those qubits they reporting
 can only do what are called Clifford operations.
 The details aren't important.
 What is important is to run something like Shor's algorithm
 you need at least one non-clifford operation.
 Typically it's called a T-gate.
 And so you don't just need a logical qubits
 that support the Clifford operations.
 You also need some number of error corrected T-gates.
 And a lot of the roadmaps don't even talk about T-gates.
 So IBM they project 2000 logical qubits by 2033, right?
 But I suspect that that's not referring
 to anything about T-gates.
 So even if they achieve that, and I hope they do,
 that doesn't mean that they're cryptographically relevant
 in 2033.
 And just two more data points
 'cause I'm only listening to the experts on this.
 So Scott Aronson has blogged that like 20 years
 could be right, but he's just seen technology
 in other areas like AI proceed so surprisingly quickly
 that he would not be shocked if it's less than 20 years.
 There was also an excellent talk
 at a quantum cryptography conference recently
 where the speaker said two things.
 So one is he does not expect AES 128,
 which is the sort of crypto system
 we don't think quantum computers can break that well.
 He doesn't expect that to be broken
 in his lifetime possibly ever.
 I don't think that's a very controversial statement
 just 'cause quantum computers can at best get
 what's called a quadratic speed up there.
 But the other thing he said is he expects and hopes RSA
 to be broken by the time he retires.
 And this is a new assistant professor, right?
 I suppose 30 years is when he retires.
 So the experts expect 30 years as like an upper bound,
 but like if we're extrapolating from the road maps
 or what we see today, there's no reason
 to think it'd be like less than 15 years minimum.
 And so yeah, I would say 20 years
 is roughly right over under.
 And I don't think that anyone sees a path today
 to way under 20 years, like something surprising
 would have to happen to be way under 20 years.
 Yeah, because when you mentioned Scott Aronson's point
 that you wouldn't be surprised if it's less than 20 years,
 he also said, I think in that same post,
 that more than five years
 is ridiculously aggressive or something.
 He wouldn't be surprised only
 because he expects surprises, right?
 Yeah, so a lot of these guesses, honestly,
 a lot of them are motivated
 by how much effort we put into it.
 How fast it will happen really depends on,
 if this for some reason just becomes a national priority
 and there's a huge of, it's like the Manhattan Project.
 Yeah, we'll get it done probably faster, right?
 But most likely it's not gonna be,
 there's not gonna be a Manhattan Project for this.
 The truth is that this is gonna happen
 at the speed of business.
 There was huge business pressure
 on the classical hardware companies
 to scale up their computing efforts.
 There was a huge pressure on industry
 to keep doubling the amount of compute power.
 - That's actually really a good point,
 'cause that's true.
 We always talk about this on this podcast too,
 that Moore's Law is not actually a law of physics.
 It's a lot of people of human intent
 and will of engineering and making something happen.
 So that's the point about the business pressure as well.
 - Right, the reason Moore's Law happened
 was because there was a lot of demand
 for increased computing capacity.
 For quantum, we're not quite seeing the strong business
 demands and the strong business drive
 for such large quantum computers.
 The quantum computing space,
 there isn't any commercial applications yet.
 So not clear that the same investment will take place.
 So things might take a little bit longer
 and Moore's Law might be a little bit optimistic.
 - Again, keep in mind these are just guesses.
 We might be off by a decade in either direction.
 - However, to your point,
 it could even be here in 10 years,
 but you don't buy the whole five years argument
 that some people make.
 - Well, 10 years is if we devote
 like a substantial fraction of US budgets to this problem,
 like the Moonshot Apollo program.
 - Yep.
 - Right now, there's no indication
 that we're actually gonna do that.
 So I would say that even 10 years is highly optimistic.
 - Got it.
 And by the way, you don't think
 like some of the private enterprises,
 like Google, IBM, this kind of inter-corporate race
 to be the first to get quantum matters,
 'cause even though just playing out your analogy further,
 no one, quote, needs quantum computing
 because they can't do anything better
 than classical computers currently can.
 And even when we think they do classical computers,
 quickly catch up and do something better.
 So it doesn't create that drive.
 - So the US corporate groups
 that are building these quantum computers
 are not very large groups.
 So not significant budgets
 that are being devoted to this right now.
 - Yeah, that's true.
 - There might even be a situation where Google
 at some point says, you know,
 we've invested in this stuff for so many years,
 we're not gonna invest anymore,
 in which case it'll take a lot longer.
 - Let's still just take a moment to really pause
 and reflect on the power of surprise and science,
 which is regardless of what we make happen
 or what the pressure is,
 the reality is that you both have stated to me
 on this podcast and outside how surprised you were
 at the progress in zero knowledge proofs, for example,
 like people 10 years ago would never believe
 where we are today.
 We could be having this exact conversation
 10 years from now and you may have to be like,
 I never could have believed.
 I mean, that's on the topic of ZK.
 Granted, that was in a classic computing paradigm
 and we're not talking about something completely new
 and different at the same time, but it was a surprise.
 So that's one.
 And two, the other point is,
 I'm just thinking about my time at Xerox park
 and I was there where they're the pioneers
 in natural language processing, NLP type researchers,
 the people who came up with LFGs,
 lexical functional grammars, like the technology
 that powered spell checks and early natural language systems
 all across the board.
 And it was also the time when Google's big data
 was starting to take off.
 And literally, it feels like all their work,
 it didn't go out the window,
 but they came up in a time where they were working
 within the constraints of what computing couldn't do.
 And then when Google came with like lots of big data
 that literally changed the NLP game,
 it just changed how natural language worked.
 And so things surprise you.
 And this goes back to the whole nature
 of technological progress,
 which is the most fascinating through line to me of all.
 But tell me if you disagree with any of that.
 - Oh, I think your ZK analogy is a good one.
 I mean, the reason it progressed so quickly
 and now we have such wonderful frameworks
 to do ZK is because there was a lot of business pressure.
 - Well, the black chain community
 needed things like that, right?
 - Yeah, I would say I'm less surprised by the progress
 in ZK than what really surprised me
 was that people found compelling applications
 for ZK given its primitive state.
 - Wow, that is a good point, that's great.
 - Before I knew about blockchains,
 it was impossible to imagine that it'd be useful
 to prove statements you could actually run the Prover on,
 but then blockchains made statements
 that are simple enough to run the very slow Provers on,
 very valuable.
 And so that's more surprising to me.
 And then of course, that sparked all the investments,
 which is why the old is where it is today.
 - I just got goosebumps when you said that.
 'Cause I think this is so beautiful
 about how technology and innovation work.
 Okay, so now we have this context.
 We put the news in context.
 We talked about a little bit of fact and fiction,
 some of the timelines and projections.
 One of the key points you made, Justin,
 when you were just talking about
 all these various quantum engineering projects
 out in the world, Microsoft, Google, IBM, et cetera,
 government, whoever, whatever they may put in their roadmap,
 it doesn't actually translate to the actual timelines.
 And we talked a bit about what the timelines
 could look like and also the surprises that are possible.
 So now let's talk about this problem
 or maybe opportunity for the community.
 If blockchains have this unique feature
 where they can upgrade quickly
 and they're not tied to classic encryption
 and they have signatures,
 what do they need to worry about?
 And more importantly, when?
 When you talk to crypto founders and technologists
 trying to figure out how to plan for a post-quantum world.
 Are they jumping too soon?
 Are they jumping too late?
 Do they not to worry at all?
 How much should they worry?
 What do they need to worry?
 Let's start talking about that.
 - Right, okay.
 So let's go through each of the kinds of cryptography
 that are used.
 So digital signatures, they're going to need to change.
 But the question is when and what are,
 are there risks of switching too early?
 And so I think there are two risks or costs
 of switching too early.
 So one is all the post-quantum signatures we have
 are just more expensive in some ways.
 So most, the ones that are kind of most popular,
 they're just like an order magnitude bigger,
 like just downloading and storing the signature
 and just a much bigger signature.
 There's another approach where the signatures are small,
 but the public keys are a hundred times bigger, right?
 - Yeah.
 - So pick your poison, right?
 So that is a cost, right?
 The network gets more bloated
 and the nodes need more compute and storage.
 And so you run into decentralization issues from that.
 That is a real cost.
 But the bigger concern is like we're still trying
 to understand what post-quantum cryptographic schemes
 are actually secure and like what the right balance is
 between performance and security.
 And the longer we wait, the more we'll understand
 and the less likely we are to switch to something
 that's just like totally insecure.
 Dan mentioned before, there's debate about whether
 we just switch to something like purely post-quantum
 or whether we have both like a classically secure
 and a post-quantum one running.
 The reason, one reason to have both is the post-quantum one
 might just turn out to be totally insecure
 or even to classical computers.
 - Which by the way, it happened multiple times.
 Multiple proposed post-quantum schemes turned out
 to be insecure to pre-quantum attacks.
 - Okay, so your point is when you talk about these costs
 and people preemptively switching,
 it's really about the danger of not preparing
 for the real security threats.
 - Well, people are trying to prepare
 and they shoot themselves in the foot
 and actually just something that's not even secured a day
 much less when the quantum computer does arrive.
 And so my view is if you can afford to wait longer,
 go ahead and prepare.
 So like when you do need to switch, you can switch.
 But don't switch before you really have to
 because it has its own risks that come along with it.
 - So that's the digital signatures part?
 - Absolutely.
 - So I think it would be interesting to talk a little bit
 about the implications for Bitcoin.
 So what would it mean for Bitcoin to switch
 to a different digital signature scheme?
 One thing to note first of all is in Bitcoin,
 when you create a new address and somebody sends you funds,
 the only thing that's public about your address
 is the hash of your public key.
 And the hash of your public key is actually not enough
 to mount a quantum attack.
 You're all vulnerable once you start to spend
 from that address that forces you then
 to reveal your actual public key.
 And you're only vulnerable to a quantum attack
 under very specific scenarios where you have already
 spent from an address and that address still has funds
 associated with it.
 So not all addresses are gonna be vulnerable in Bitcoin.
 Now, the other interesting thing is,
 so Bitcoin is very hard to make changes to.
 It takes forever to make a change to Bitcoin.
 Moving to a new signature scheme is a pretty major change.
 I think they've only done it once when they've enabled
 short signatures in addition to ECDSA.
 And so now they're gonna have to introduce
 a new signature scheme.
 So they would wanna be sure that they're actually
 introducing the right one.
 Probably that means waiting a few more years
 until we have confidence in the signature schemes they use.
 And then what's even more interesting is once they move,
 there's gonna have to be some sort of a flag day
 in Bitcoin, which is that all accounts
 that have not transitioned will be deprecated.
 Otherwise, there's potentially a lot of funds
 that could be stolen and destabilized the Bitcoin economy.
 - Got it. - Yeah.
 So they have to somehow agree on a date, 2035, 2040, 2050,
 whatever that is, but there's gonna have to be some date
 after which if you haven't transitioned,
 we declare your address as abandoned
 and all the coins are associated with that address
 basically would be deprecated.
 And from that point onwards,
 the system will be post-quantum secure.
 So there's a lot of debates on how to do all this.
 There's a lot of engineering.
 They would have to go into all of it.
 - What's a little surprising is that there isn't too much
 discussion on the Bitcoin community over this.
 - Actually, it's not surprising because I was just thinking
 when you were saying that there's this engineering part,
 I was like, well, this is a social thing, right?
 That it's a very distributed,
 this is a very thing people love about Bitcoin is,
 I mean, we're talking about all these systems
 eventually being fully decentralized, et cetera,
 but there's different layers of groups of people
 coordinating than the amount of coordination.
 So it's actually a very social problem at that point.
 - Yeah, that's right.
 But it's very interesting that for the L1s,
 basically to kind of move to this post-quantum world,
 in many situations,
 people actually have to move their funds
 from the pre-quantum address to a post-quantum address.
 - Right, right.
 - So there is one more thing
 we're trying to computing is relevant for Bitcoin.
 So proof of work.
 So Bitcoin uses hashing for proof of work.
 That's how miners mine more blocks.
 And the miner that solves this puzzle
 that requires a lot of hash computations
 is the one that puts in the next block.
 And today they get rewarded for it.
 And the reward keeps getting halved every four years
 in Bitcoin terms.
 Okay, so today, if you are a miner
 and you put in 10 times as much work,
 you will have 10 times the likelihood
 of using the next block.
 And this sort of linear scaling is important
 for decentralization of the proof of work,
 which is not really that decentralized.
 - Right, 'cause there's like Bitcoin mining pools,
 et cetera, et cetera,
 to get that very successful rate.
 - Right, but if you're a small miner,
 you're not really at a disadvantage to the big miners.
 Yeah, you have a small probability of winning a block.
 Maybe your probability is 1/1000 of the big miner,
 but you also have 1/1000 of the cost.
 With quantum computers,
 if you put in 10 times as much work,
 your success for the probability of choosing the next block
 goes up by more than a factor of 10.
 So this is a centralizing force for proof of work,
 at least for the proof of work Bitcoin uses today.
 And people have looked at other alternative proofs of work
 that might retain the old property.
 And I'm also referring to like a theoretically,
 perfect quantum computer.
 So this is something,
 and the scheme of things Bitcoin needs to worry about,
 it's like digital signatures are up here
 and proof of work centralization
 is like not even in the same country.
 But I think that is something worth mentioning.
 - That is so interesting.
 - And just a few more minutes,
 I'm gonna say one thing.
 So Bitcoin's proof of work uses a hash function
 called SHA-256.
 - Yeah.
 - And I saw a lot of tweets
 after the Google Willow announcement,
 about quantum computers,
 potentially breaking SHA-256.
 - Oh, okay.
 - We have just talked about how we believe,
 hashing is post-quantum, right?
 And so what's going on here is,
 quantum computers can give a marginal speed up
 to attacking hash functions.
 But it's pretty marginal.
 And actually, I told you there was a talk recently
 by an expert who said he doesn't expect AES-128
 to be broken in his lifetime and maybe ever.
 And that's referring to the fact that,
 not only is the speed up marginal,
 but there's enough concrete overhead that in practice,
 it might not really even be a speed up at all,
 or really really really marginal.
 And so that's sort of what's going on
 with this proof of work comment that just made.
 I was referring to the marginal speed up.
 The marginal speed up is what gets you the centralizing force,
 where doing 10 times as much work
 is more than a 10-fold improvement in success probability.
 With all of the complications in a real quantum computer,
 it might be quite marginal the centralizing force in the end.
 No one is going to completely break shot to 56,
 even once they have a scalable quantum computer.
 Not only do we not have those and probably won't have them
 for more than a decade, but even once we do,
 it's not completely breaking shot to 56.
 - Got it.
 Okay, that's a very helpful clarification and nuance.
 So we're talking about several different approaches.
 So that was all about digital signatures
 and the implications.
 What are some of the other ones?
 - Okay, so that's the digital signatures.
 Another major cryptographic primitive
 that is central to the future of some blockchains
 is zero-knowledge proofs or succinct proofs
 for scalability of blockchains as well as privacy.
 So ZK is of misuse today where people use it
 as a synonym for succinct proofs
 that might not actually be zero-knowledge.
 - Sorry, Justin, just reminding people
 what zero-knowledge is at a high level.
 Even though we take it so for granted,
 I realized we never did that.
 - Okay, so zero-knowledge is actually a misnomer.
 It's used to refer to proof systems
 that might or might not be zero-knowledge.
 So I'm going to talk about both.
 - Okay, great.
 - So zero-knowledge proof is a proof that you know some data
 and the proof leaks no information about the data
 besides that you know it, right?
 So I might prove that I know the secret key
 controlling a Bitcoin wallet,
 but the proof doesn't leak any information about the key.
 It'd be a big problem if it did
 because someone gets enough information about the key.
 Now they can take my Bitcoin, right?
 So that's zero-knowledge, that's about privacy.
 The other property is zero-knowledge proofs is a synchness.
 This is proofs that are very short and very fast to check.
 So this property lets you kind of offload
 hard computational work to anyone in the world
 who you might not trust.
 And they'll prove they did the work correctly
 and the proof is really short
 and the proof is like really fast to check.
 So they do all the hard work
 and all you do is check this proof
 and it's like way, way, way, way, way, way cheaper
 than if you did the work yourself.
 - That's fantastic.
 And I actually want to make a plug
 for your book proofs arguments and zero-knowledge.
 And while you don't have a dedicated chapter
 to post-quantum crypto,
 you do reference quantum computing
 and post-quantum security in multiple places
 throughout the book.
 I actually believe it or not did skim that book
 when you joined Justin
 'cause it was so useful.
 The first three chapters were so useful
 for understanding the work and editing.
 So like I just want to shout out for that book.
 - Yeah, thanks a lot.
 - So we want to demystify that a little bit.
 Justin, dig in on ZK a bit.
 - So here there are a couple of things to say.
 So one is some of the zero-knowledge proof systems
 that are popular today are already post-quantum.
 So that's a very nice thing.
 Now, a downside of the post-quantum ones
 is they tend to have bigger proofs,
 higher verifier costs,
 but they're faster for the provers
 or they have a reputation for that anyway.
 One thing I want to say is zero-knowledge proofs,
 they have two security properties.
 One is zero-knowledge,
 which is about protecting privacy.
 And the other is soundness,
 which is about security that you can't prove false statements.
 I can't prove that you authorized a transaction
 to me if you actually didn't, right?
 And so the thing that's susceptible to quantum attack
 is the soundness, not the privacy.
 So what this means is if you post a zero-knowledge proof
 today, even with a non-post-quantum
 secure zero-knowledge proof system,
 you have nothing to worry about
 if there's a quantum computer 30 years in the future.
 That quantum computer 30 years in the future
 is not gonna look at your proof from today
 and violate your privacy.
 That's not gonna happen.
 And what that means is we don't really have to switch
 the ZK proof systems until we're really worried
 that there's already a quantum computer.
 'Cause it's secure today if the proof is generated today
 and there's no quantum computer today.
 And we don't have to worry about future violations
 of privacy from old proofs.
 Yeah, that's up there.
 - No, I mean, if you have more to say,
 Justin, it's okay if you wanna say more on that.
 - Yeah, so I mean, okay, let's see.
 The post-quantum systems,
 they have a reputation for the fastest proofers.
 And I think that will persist,
 although I think the reputation is a little bit overstated.
 But they definitely have bigger proofs,
 up to two orders and magnitude bigger.
 And so what most projects do today
 is they'll take this post-quantum proof
 and it's too big,
 they don't wanna post it to the blockchain,
 that'd be too expensive.
 So they use the non-post-quantum thing
 to prove they know the post-quantum proof.
 And the community is really worried
 that the quantum computer might come six years from now.
 I've encountered a lot of people who really think
 the quantum computers might be breaking cryptography
 in a few years.
 And so they're like, you know,
 we're gonna, a year from now, we're switching.
 That means everyone's gonna skip this wrapping step
 to bash the proof size down because it's not post-quantum secure.
 And now all of the proofs will be two orders
 and magnitude bigger than they have to be.
 That is like a meaningful cost to the blockchain
 to do that switch when we really could wait
 to the last minute for the reasons I just said.
 - Right, well, especially because we're also still
 working out the size and efficiency.
 It's not like this is an incredibly advanced technology
 20 years then.
 - Right, and in fact, my own work is making major strides
 and speeding up the provers
 for the non-post-quantum secure things.
 So it's all a moving target.
 And I do worry that some of the L1s will make a decision
 to switch to some kind of system that turns out
 to be the wrong decision because stuff is changing
 and we don't understand everything yet.
 So in my view for the next 10 years, minimum five years,
 but let's say most likely 10 and up,
 at least with these ZK proofs,
 which are very complicated sophisticated
 cryptographic protocols, the real thing to worry about
 is not quantum computers, it bugs.
 It's like you're gonna get hit by a car
 because you're looking up for the asteroid or something.
 So for any time in the next 10 years,
 if I had the choice between a simpler non-post-quantum thing
 and a less simple post-quantum thing,
 I'm gonna go with the simpler one for sure.
 And we're trying to address the complicatedness
 with techniques like formal verification and stuff.
 And if something's formally verified,
 it really doesn't matter how complicated it is.
 But that's all in progress.
 And those efforts are gonna also take years.
 Okay, that's up there.
 That's very good context.
 So Dan, what more is there to say then
 to several different approaches
 to addressing post-quantum security?
 I think you probably the best person
 to talk about lattice-based cryptography.
 Yeah, maybe I'll just say a few words about that.
 So there are a couple of approaches
 to building these post-quantum systems.
 Lattices are these nice geometric objects.
 And there are computational problems on lattices
 that we believe are hard for a quantum computer to solve.
 Why it's hard is because we've been trying to break it
 for the last 20 years and we haven't been able to.
 In cryptography, we're always looking for a hard problem.
 'Cause the minute we have a hard problem,
 we can try to build cryptosystems
 that are as secure as breaking the hard problem.
 So these have inherently problems that seem to be hard
 for a quantum computer to solve.
 There's hope that we can build cryptosystems
 from these problems that will also be hard
 for a quantum computer to solve.
 So can I ask you this, though?
 How does the community address skepticism?
 Like what's the kind of work that people are doing
 to essentially prove out and ensure
 that these things can be secure?
 - I mean, the question is, how do we choose the bedrock
 in which we base our cryptography in the world?
 - That's right.
 - And the way we do that is we choose problems
 that have been studied for a long time.
 And the community has reached consensus
 that enough time has passed by that we have some confidence
 that these problems seem to be difficult.
 That's how we came up with AES.
 We believe AES is a good cipher,
 not because there's a theorem that said that,
 but because a lot of people have tried to break AES
 and nobody succeeded.
 - Right.
 - Why we ended up with ECDSA or Schnorr signatures
 is based on discrete log and elliptic curves.
 Classically, people have tried to break it
 for a long time, nobody succeeded.
 So we gained confidence in the system.
 And the same thing happens with lattices, right?
 So I guess people have started studying
 the quantum complexity of lattices shortly
 after Schor's algorithm.
 Shortly after 1994, people already started wondering
 how hard are these lattice problems for a quantum computer?
 And it's been, what is it, 30 years now
 that people have studied quantum algorithms for lattices.
 And nobody's been able to find a very fast algorithm.
 And so the more time goes by,
 the more confidence we have that these problems
 are difficult.
 Now, that doesn't mean tomorrow
 somebody could come up with a brilliant idea
 and change our worldview.
 And that's happened in the past, right?
 There have been systems that we thought were secure.
 In fact, people offered bug bounties for breaking them.
 And then it turned out there was a mathematical breakthrough
 and it turned out the systems were not secure.
 We don't have a mathematical theorem
 that says that these things are hard.
 Unfortunately, we can't prove any hard these days.
 That's related to the P versus NP question,
 which is an open problem.
 And since we can't prove that things are hard,
 we basically have to speculate that they're hard.
 And the only way we can speculate is if enough people
 have tried to attack them and fail.
 Yep, that's great.
 Now, what I will say is that that is a never-ending process.
 We do need more people to study the quantum hardness
 of lattices, specifically lattices that are being used
 in the NIST standards.
 And so we should encourage more people in the community
 to study these problems and come up with algorithms,
 even if they can not completely solve
 and come up with fast algorithms,
 even if they can shave off the security a little bit,
 that would already be a huge result.
 So there is incentive for people to go and study
 these questions, but until somebody makes a breakthrough,
 we go with the current consensus,
 which is that these problems are quantum secure.
 That's super interesting.
 Were there any others you want to quickly mention?
 Yeah, so NIST actually recently standardized
 on a whole suite of post-quantum systems.
 These are systems that people can use
 if they want to move to a post-quantum environment.
 And so they have, for example, a key exchange mechanism.
 It's based on a system called Kiber.
 Technically, if the name for these things
 is maybe not so important, but they--
 Well, I want to hear what it's called technically.
 What is it?
 Yeah, it's called MLChem.
 The ML stands for a module, lattice,
 and it's basically standardized a key exchange mechanism
 based on a post-quantum system.
 Yeah, Kiber.
 Kiber.
 But I think it's important for listeners
 to understand the cost of these things.
 So Kiber, they particularly recommend
 using what's called Kiber 768.
 The public key in a normal pre-quantum key exchange system.
 Basically, the public key is like 64 bytes.
 The messages are like 64 bytes.
 Everything is nice and small.
 With Kiber, the public key all of a sudden
 becomes over a kilobyte.
 The messages that have to be exchanged
 are over a kilobyte.
 So we go from 64 bytes to a kilobyte of data
 that now has to be sent back and forth.
 And that has a lot of implication in the blockchain
 space because, again, if you have to store encrypted data
 on the blockchain, blockchain space is very expensive.
 If you go from 64 bytes to a kilobyte,
 that's a heck of a lot more you have to pay
 for now storing this data on chain.
 So there's costs to these things.
 Definitely.
 And this also standardized three signature algorithms.
 Two of them are actually based on lattice-based systems.
 And one of them is based on hash-based schemes.
 The hash-based one, there's one point
 that I would like to make there.
 The hash-based one is very interesting.
 It's called SLH DSA.
 SLH stands for stateless hash.
 But the scheme itself is interesting in that security
 of the scheme is based on security
 of the underlying hash function.
 Now hash functions we believe we can make secure
 against quantum computer.
 So in some sense, SLH DSA has the least risk
 associated with it because it's very unlikely
 that the quantum computer will break those systems.
 The problem with those systems is
 that the signatures tend to be relatively large.
 So in SLH DSA, the signature is about seven kilobytes.
 64 by signatures to seven kilobyte signatures.
 That's very difficult for a blockchain to do.
 But it's even difficult for the web to do.
 Even for HTTPS, it would be very difficult to use
 if we have certificates where every certificate
 has a seven kilobyte signature inside of it.
 It would take you a while to download
 the front pages of New York Times
 'cause you have to get all these signatures
 onto your computer.
 But there is one environment where I think it is really
 important to try and get these signatures adopted quickly,
 which is the software update environment.
 So every time you download a software update to your laptop,
 that software update is signed by a signature scheme.
 And that's how your laptop knows
 that the software update came from Apple
 or Microsoft or every operating system you're using.
 Now, if we are surprised in a year from now,
 somebody announces that they built a quantum computer,
 we are in some sense in the water
 because I can't send you a software update at this point
 that you will believe is valid
 because that software update could have been forged
 and signed by this person who has a quantum computer.
 And so in some sense, software update systems
 are the ones that have to be updated first
 so that if we're surprised
 and a quantum computer is built early,
 we can have confidence that those software patches are secure.
 - So this should be the one
 that people are really focusing on?
 - Exactly.
 So this is in some sense a high priority,
 at least for software update systems,
 we do need to use post-quantum signatures relatively soon
 so we can update it as of an emergency.
 And the one that's recommended to use there
 is exactly this hash-based signature scheme.
 For software update, it doesn't matter if the signature is large
 'cause you're already downloading like 100 megabyte updates.
 - Great, does this one have an easy name
 like the other one did for Kyber, the stateless hash one?
 Does it have a shorthand as well
 or is it just a bunch of letters?
 - Okay, the jumble there is it's called SLH GSA
 but it's based on a system called Sphinx.
 - Okay, there we go, it's based on Sphinx.
 Okay, and then just one takeaway,
 what does it take away based on these NIST options
 for builders, both in general
 and in the blockchain crypto space?
 Like what should they be thinking about
 when they hear you say this?
 - Okay, well, so software updates,
 do we need to start using the system soon?
 Or HTTPS, the mandate is 2035,
 we have to update our encryption algorithms.
 - Yep.
 - We don't have to update our signature algorithms
 so certificates can continue
 to use pre-quantum signatures for quite a while
 in the web space and probably also in the blockchain space.
 - That was a great bottom line.
 So Justin, this is a good segue to begin
 to a little bit more nuance on some of the ZK stuff
 'cause speaking of lattice based folding schemes,
 there's a paper that Trenut saidy,
 who's one of your collaborators from Microsoft Research
 and Wilson Nguyen from Stanford University
 wrote very recently called NEO,
 lattice based folding scheme for CCS over small fields
 and paper bit commitments.
 So let's talk about that briefly
 and how that applies in the ZK world.
 - Sounds good, so it's not being used today,
 it's like a hot off the press, like research advance.
 And it's also, by the way,
 shortly before that paper came out, Dan
 and his postdoc, Bin Yuchen,
 posted a related paper that's also trying to design
 more efficient folding schemes from lattices.
 So look, I will characterize things as follows.
 Today, most of public key cryptography
 is based on elliptic curves, right?
 And unfortunately, they're not post-quantum.
 I would say lattices, like the way I think about them
 is they mimic a lot of the nice properties
 that make elliptic curves so useful today,
 while still being, we hope, post-quantum secure.
 And so I mentioned that some of the more popular ZK proofs
 today are post-quantum, they're based on hashing,
 just like the signature scheme Dan mentioned.
 And others are based on elliptic curves.
 And it's not like one is strictly better
 than the other even ignoring post-quantum, right?
 Like people think that the post-quantum
 one's actually a factor provers,
 and I think that's still up for debate.
 But one thing is for sure,
 the elliptic curve ones have shorter proofs.
 And some other nice properties,
 like the most efficient folding schemes by far,
 built from elliptic curves.
 And we don't know how to even approach that efficiency
 with hashing, despite significant efforts.
 The new papers from Sreenoff and William and Dan and Vinnie,
 they are trying to do some of the cool stuff
 in the ZK space that we can do with elliptic curves,
 but instead with lattices.
 - Ah, got it, okay.
 - Right, and so when I saw these new papers,
 I suddenly became optimistic.
 My plan to get a post-quantum version of jolt,
 that I also think will be faster for the prover,
 but it's a little bit TBD,
 was to go through the hashing based thing.
 But I think that introduces a lot of complications
 and headaches.
 And so the lattice stuff offers an alternative path
 to a post-quantum version of jolt,
 which there's still some issues to deal with.
 But if they get resolved,
 it could be much simpler and just as performative
 as the hashing root I was previously considering.
 - Got it, okay.
 And then is there anything else you wanted to add on ZK
 in particular, as it applies to post-quantum crypto
 that we missed?
 I know there's a million things you can say,
 but is there anything else?
 - No, yeah, I think I hit the high points there.
 - Okay.
 - One thing I wanna say is that elliptic curve cryptography
 has a lot of nice properties that in the ZK context
 in particular, we're still like making discoveries
 about how those nice properties can be exploited
 for like major efficiency gains.
 And I wouldn't write off the elliptic curve schemes
 because they're not post-quantum,
 especially given that further advancements using lattices
 might get us the same benefits while being post-quantum.
 Now, another benefit of the elliptic curve schemes
 is that we have these ways,
 and this is where folding schemes come up,
 where they can potentially use significantly less memory.
 So generating a proof takes less memory.
 This is essential if you want the prober
 to run on a phone.
 And so if you really want the proofs to run on phones today,
 I think elliptic curve-based things
 give the best path for that
 and possibly lattices in the future.
 And that's exactly what these new papers
 on lattice-based folding are looking at.
 And I guess the final thing I'll say,
 I think wrapping a post-quantum proof
 and a non-post-quantum thing is silly.
 I think people are forced to do that today.
 Like they just have no choice.
 But I don't like it because it's bug-prone,
 it's complicated.
 And the proofs we generate without the wrapping,
 I think they're small enough.
 They're not like megabytes.
 They're as little as like a dozen kilobytes or something,
 maybe up to 100 kilobytes.
 And so the reason everyone's doing this wrapping today
 that's like complicated and error prone
 is because it's so expensive to post data on blockchains
 and run computations checking proofs on blockchains.
 And if the blockchains scale up a little bit,
 I hope we won't have to do it in the future.
 It's adding surface area for bugs and complications
 and all sorts of things.
 - Yeah, it's a little like wrapping a secret inside
 like a public bus stop or something else totally.
 And actually to your point,
 this is a recurring theme I keep hearing you saying
 throughout this episode, Justin,
 is you're not saying don't worry
 about post-quantum crypto.
 People have to do it at the right time.
 But you're also saying don't lose a bigger picture
 and destroy your security.
 And the fact that you actually have to worry about bugs.
 And that's actually the real or problem right now
 is what you're saying.
 - Right now, yeah, absolutely.
 If you have no choice but to switch soon
 because you're nist and it's gonna take 20 years
 to do the switch, do what you gotta do.
 But if you do have a choice,
 don't rush in and take all these risks
 and make everything buggier than it already is.
 The bug's easier to find and all that.
 Yeah, that would be my caution.
 - Great. All right.
 That's another wrap up, tell me what is your device
 or how to think about when and what to do?
 Like how should builders approach this?
 - Okay, so again, zero knowledge proofs kind of have
 two orthogonal security properties.
 So one is protecting privacy of the prover
 if they're proving they know some sensitive data.
 And the other is kind of security that no one can prove
 they know data that they don't actually know, right?
 And the post-quantum concern is just doesn't affect
 that all the privacy property.
 And it does affect the other security property.
 But as long as you know that the attacker didn't have access
 to a scalable quantum computer,
 when they generated the proof, everything's fine.
 The privacy is still there as long as you know
 that the prover at the time they generated the proof
 did not have a quantum computer, then everything's fine.
 So what I would say is, look, I do fully expect us
 to have, we'd rather than quantum computers
 in the coming decades.
 And so what I would say is it's not cost free
 or risk free to switch.
 And it's a cost benefit analysis thing.
 Like we do eventually have to switch for sure.
 There's lots of debate, not only about
 how long will it take to get the computer,
 but will we see it coming, right?
 Will it be like a bunch of progress in the year before
 we actually get cryptographic relevance?
 Or will it be like an overnight thing?
 - Yes, yes.
 - And so I think people should be prepared.
 I just think that they also should carefully consider
 the benefits of waiting and weigh everything carefully
 and not just panic, basically.
 - So think about it, prepare.
 But don't jump and definitely don't buy the hype
 and the news media and suddenly change your thing
 overnight before you talk about upgrading blockchains.
 Which by the way, I don't think people even realize
 that blockchain upgrading is actually much easier
 as we talked about in this episode than--
 - Upgrading like the internet infrastructure?
 - Yeah, exactly.
 - It's much easier.
 - It's much easier.
 - Yeah.
 - That's a great note to end on.
 Justin, thank you so much for your patience
 and for explaining this.
 - I'm glad we finally got to record
 one of these together.
 - Thank you, I know, and we'll have more.
 - Well, I look forward to it.
 Thanks for having me.
 I hope the conversation is educational
 and generally useful, and it was a pleasure.
 - So no, thanks for running this.
 Super, super interesting.
 I hope this was educational
 and help for your audience.
 - Super educational.
 I feel like you secretly work for the NSA, CIA,
 and you like secretly have a quantum computer
 you're making, and we'll talk more about this later.
 But our next thought site,
 we love talking about three-body problem trilogy.
 I want you to tell me about these things
 that the topological qubits are based on,
 'cause they sound like alien so far.
 Actually, anyway, thanks, Dan.
 - Thanks for joining us.
 - Thanks for all.
 - You too.
 (upbeat music)
 (upbeat music)
 (upbeat music)
 (upbeat music)
 (upbeat music)
 (dramatic music)
 [BLANK_AUDIO]
