--- METADATA START ---
Show: N/A
Episode: Startups & Defense: Katherine … - a16z Podcast
Host: Unknown
GUESTS: Katherine Boyle
Guests: Katherine Boyle
Source URL: https://podcasts.apple.com/us/podcast/startups-defense-katherine-boyle-on-tbpn/id842818711?i=1000706692307
--- METADATA END ---

 (upbeat music)
 - Today on the A16Z podcast,
 we're sharing Katherine Boyle's recent interview
 on TVPN.
 Katherine, a general partner at A16Z
 and a driving force behind the American Dynamism thesis,
 joins the show to discuss the state of the movement.
 From the Department of Defense's latest reform efforts
 to the growing role of startups in national security
 and beyond,
 Katherine breaks down how far American Dynamism has come
 and why the work is just getting started.
 As a reminder, the content here is for informational purposes
 only, should not be taken as legal business,
 tax or investment advice,
 or be used to evaluate any investment or security
 and is not directed at any investors
 or potential investors in any A16Z fund.
 Please note that A16Z and its affiliates
 may also maintain investments in the companies
 discussed in this podcast.
 For more details, including a link to our investments,
 please see a16z.com/disclosures.
 (upbeat music)
 - And next up, we have Katherine Boyle
 from Andreessen Horowitz,
 the pioneer of American Dynamism.
 - One of the top coinages of the last few years.
 - Yeah, for sure.
 - And more relevant than ever.
 In some ways, mission accomplished.
 I mean, last week in DC,
 it was American Dynamism on display, right?
 - That's right.
 - Everyone is a believer and the question is,
 where do we go from here?
 And that's what I'm excited to dig in with her today.
 - Katherine, welcome to the stream.
 How are you doing? - Thanks for having me.
 It's about time.
 I'm so happy to share. - Yes, I have.
 - You just gave her a long-time listener,
 a first-time caller.
 - Great to have you.
 With the flag in the background.
 - Yes, fantastic. - Love it.
 - Where should we start?
 I'm curious about state of affairs
 with the American Dynamism movement,
 the project feels like it's maybe time
 to rest on our laurels.
 What do you think?
 - We've achieved American Dynamism.
 - It feels like it.
 - Yeah, but it feels like it's broken through.
 - Cultural victory may be coming before actual victory.
 - Sure, sure. - And that American Dynamism
 is almost mainstream now, at least in the venture world.
 - Yes.
 - But jobs not finished.
 - Jobs not finished.
 So what are the key asks in DC from Silicon Valley right now?
 What are the top projects?
 Where should tech be focused
 in terms of the American Dynamism project broadly right now?
 - Totally.
 So it's nowhere near finished.
 I mean, this is like three or four years
 into a 30-year project,
 which is always good when you have those sorts of aims.
 And I'd say it's even longer than that.
 When you think of Defense 1.0,
 it started around 2015, 2016.
 It sort of has become this very large movement.
 But I'll tell you,
 last week was a huge, huge week
 for American Dynamism inside of the DOD.
 And the news sort of got buried in tech land,
 but it was just,
 it's probably one of the biggest things to happen
 in the first hundred days of the Trump administration.
 The army announced what they're calling
 their Army Transformation Initiative.
 It was with Secretary Driscoll, General George.
 They actually went on Fox and Friends,
 which was like a huge deal
 that they actually went public with it.
 And they said, it's been way too long.
 We have so many platforms we wanna modernize.
 We want to divest from technologies
 that are no longer useful.
 We want to modernize the force.
 We wanna make sure that we get rid of civilian jobs
 that are not important anymore.
 We wanna make sure we are not having wasteful spending.
 It was sort of like, you know, what I'd read in NBC
 after it came out.
 They said like the army is dozing itself.
 - Yeah.
 - I think the real story of what the army is doing,
 and kudos to them because they truly are the first mover,
 is there are people inside of the DOD
 who have been saying these things for years,
 pounding their head against the wall,
 saying they want acquisition reform,
 saying they want to work with startups,
 saying they have to have new platforms
 that come in and actually support
 the needs of the warfighter.
 And they've been pounding their head against the wall
 with little results.
 And so when you have a doge effort going on in Washington,
 and an administration that really wants to see
 the waste disappear,
 it allows for those people who are really forward-thinking
 like General George and like Secretary Driscoll
 to come forward and say, hey, we're gonna do this ourselves.
 We're gonna pick out the new technologies that we need.
 We're gonna get rid of things like Humvee's
 that we haven't needed in 20 years.
 We're going to figure out what is actually useful
 for the army, and we're gonna do it ourselves.
 So it was a huge week.
 I think it was probably one of the most,
 it was reported, but it didn't get sort of the praise
 from technology that it should have.
 Like this is an extraordinary movement
 that I think has really been a long time coming.
 And it's something that a lot of the early American
 dynamists and companies have been pushing for
 for a long, long time.
 So congratulations to the army.
 Yeah, so can you give me a little bit of a doge yourself
 and get doge?
 Always doge yourself.
 Yeah, can you give me a little bit of a tour
 of the market map of the beneficiaries
 of this transformation?
 Obviously, everyone knows the Palantiers
 and the Anderles, but I imagine that there are tons
 of pockets of value and projects
 that need to be overhauled.
 Is it mostly drones, weapons systems, vehicles first?
 Or are there other areas that companies
 that you talk to are focused on
 in this transformation process?
 In the early days, that's what's been called out.
 So it's early UAVs that were developed 20 years ago.
 They're not relevant post-Ukraine war.
 It's actually sort of, I don't wanna say comical,
 because it's not funny.
 But when you think about the fact
 that the Humvee was developed in 1980,
 it went into production in 1985,
 and that the Army said in 2004,
 this actually isn't useful for us anymore,
 because there's this new type of warfare called IEDs,
 and we're not going to use it.
 And these are still in production in 2025.
 So that's a perfect example.
 And I think they're showing certain programs
 that are so long overdue that they're going to be changed.
 But I think it's also smaller things.
 Like, the program of record was developed
 when you had to build out these very, very large platforms,
 and you had to plan years and decades in advance.
 And when someone won a program,
 it was understood that they were going
 to run that program for decades.
 And now the Army has ways to acquire things
 where technology is changing at a pace and at a speed
 that really needs to have a genuine competition
 every year, every couple of years.
 And so that really benefits all startups,
 that benefits all incoming emerging technologies
 that are going to serve sort of the fight of the future.
 They have specific call-outs that they're pointing to now,
 but definitely, this is great news for startups,
 because what it's showing is that there is actually
 the will inside the DoD.
 Is there any movement on procurement reform?
 I remember I watched this hilarious movie, Pentagon Wars,
 all about the development of the Bradley fighting vehicle.
 And it's a very funny movie.
 Everyone has a different requirement.
 They all get put together and becomes this kind of platypus
 of a vehicle that is part tank, part troop transport,
 all these different problems.
 Part of the benefit of modern technology
 is that we do develop platforms,
 and things like Android's Ghost can do ISR,
 and also do munitions and a whole bunch of things.
 There are projects that do need flexibility,
 but is there a cultural shift around moving away
 from exquisite systems, or just when folks in defense tech
 say we need procurement reform,
 what are they really talking about in 2025?
 Yeah, well, I think they're talking about different things,
 because I think what this initiative is going to do
 is it's going to allow the army,
 and I think there'll be a lot of replicas of this as well.
 I think other branches will look at this
 and say this is a great idea.
 Instead of being locked into a program for decades,
 they're going to be able to say actually,
 we would love to use that capital for something new.
 We would love to recompete that program.
 We would like to be able to be better capital allocators
 because now their hands are tied.
 And I think when you talk to people
 who are just in normal business, not in defense world,
 and you say, hey, if you had to make a decision
 about a purchase that's going to last for 10 years,
 and get no updates, and you would not be allowed
 to change it, what would you do?
 We would say that's insane.
 Like, how is a CEO going to say,
 they're going to acquire technology for their company
 that they're going to use for 10 years,
 and there's going to be no software and updates, no nothing.
 And if it's not working, you can't get rid of it.
 If you're told you can't get rid of it.
 I mean, that is literally what the DOD has to deal with.
 And so I think what's great about this initiative,
 again, it's one, the fact that the army is going public
 says that they mean business,
 and that they have their cover to do this.
 But I think that the meta story
 that we're going to tell ourselves
 is Doge has been very public in the last week
 of what they're doing.
 There's been some pushback on,
 why are you working on IT systems?
 Everyone has sort of their favorite Doge meme
 of why it's not working.
 But the story of Doge, I think when we look back,
 even in a year, is going to be that it gave extraordinary
 air cover to reform in every department.
 And the first example inside the DOD,
 this is the biggest example in the last 100 days,
 to see General George out there saying,
 like, this is what we need to do, and we are committed,
 and we're going public because we are so committed,
 which doesn't usually happen.
 I just think it speaks volumes,
 and tech should be celebrating.
 This is a big, big day
 for everyone in the American Itemism,
 ecosystem for every defense company
 that's been fighting for this for a long time.
 Yeah, and for all of this,
 to actually achieve those sort of 30-year goals
 or execute against that 30-year plan,
 things need to be bipartisan.
 People need to realize we want
 efficiency and innovation across every branch.
 I'm curious, on the investing side,
 I'm sure you have this painful experience
 all the time where you meet companies
 that probably are going to be great businesses
 are good for America,
 but maybe aren't a fit for venture.
 What's your sort of updated thinking on understanding
 if something can be a great, important business
 versus something that can truly be a generational outcome?
 Yeah, well, one of the biggest mistakes
 I see investors make is trying to predict TAM.
 So early, early days of Android,
 a lot of people didn't want to look at Android
 because of ethical reasons,
 or because they were worried about being involved in defense.
 But there was another meme that was going around,
 which is almost comical now,
 which is, well, it's kind of a small TAM, right?
 Like, a border security company,
 like, oh, they're selling to DHS,
 Department of Homeland Security,
 does it really have that big of a,
 but like, these were real things that people said
 that are hilarious now.
 You guys can imagine.
 So I think it is very difficult
 to predict a growing market,
 eventually what some of these
 incredibly important technologies are going to be worth.
 But I agree with you,
 there are some examples of companies
 that might not be, you know, standalone businesses,
 but will ultimately, you know,
 Andrew has done a very good job of acquiring businesses
 that aren't going to be these venture outcomes,
 but work, you know, very well within their platform.
 But I think in some ways,
 there's always surprises with companies
 that were initially passed on
 or people were very skeptical of their TAM
 in the early days.
 And then you look back
 and you see just how much they've grown
 or how much the product has shifted
 or how important the platform actually is.
 >> Yeah, how have you been, you know,
 ignoring the politics of it all,
 but reacting to, you know, the trade war,
 in many ways like when you have these like big geopolitical,
 you know, events playing out that doesn't necessarily mean
 start to make a lot of venture investments
 because venture investments take a long time to play out
 and it's very hard to predict the future.
 Are you seeing new opportunities related, you know,
 to the events of the last month?
 Are you still just, you know, continuing?
 Like I imagine when you guys invested in Hadrian,
 you weren't like betting on a trade war
 in two years or something like that, right?
 But how do you think about timelines
 and is the benefit of sort of thinking
 in that 30-year timeline
 that you're kind of able to broadly, you know, ignore
 or not place too much focus on the headlines of today
 and just think about what America needs in the long run?
 >> I would say my bias is a very early stage investor
 is to not think about the immediate timeframes.
 These are very long cycles.
 You can sort of see trend lines,
 but it's hard to know what actual events
 you're going to happen, obviously.
 So I think even when we made the investment in Hadrian
 as you called out, there was a movement
 towards reindustrialization
 and towards investing in manufacturing
 that was early and nascent.
 But if you were hearing the signs
 or spending a lot of time in DC,
 both sides were very focused in Washington
 on how do we think about investing in America,
 reindustrialization, how do we bring back manufacturing?
 So, you know, it felt like it was a message
 that was being heard then.
 It's just, of course, been accelerated.
 And I think truly, if you think about the next 10, 20 years,
 reindustrialization is going to be a very important theme.
 So, you know, it can feel like everything is hot right now
 or feel like we're in the middle of something.
 But ultimately, I think we're, again,
 in this like very, very early, you know,
 three or four years into a 30-year journey,
 you know, it took decades for globalization
 to really hit its peak.
 And now we're sort of seeing the pendulum swing again.
 And so you're going to see a lot of companies
 that are built in the next few years
 that become generational companies.
 - Yeah, how do you think about the kind of
 broader market map of American dynamism?
 Obviously, Andrew is like just a great case study
 in the American dynamism thesis.
 But at the same time, as you go through
 the American dynamism website,
 you can go back to like the moon landing
 and the development of the iPhone as like examples.
 At the same time, there's this question about like
 the anderole of X is anderole potentially.
 But then that doesn't always come true
 if you're talking about something that's truly outside
 of their purview in consumer or in, you know,
 flock safety or hatred and these companies
 are not competitive but maybe fit in the thesis.
 How are you seeing the investing landscape
 of American dynamism kind of evolve
 as more people come into the category?
 But then think outside the box and address different issues.
 I mean, I've seen even like some education stuff
 kind of fit the broader thesis.
 So how has that evolved over the last couple of years?
 - Yeah, we defined it as companies
 that are actively supporting the national interest.
 - Sure.
 - So it is a very simple definition
 and founders have, you know,
 different interpretations of what it means,
 but there's common themes.
 And actually this goes into why we decided
 to have a separate fund,
 why we decided to build out the platform,
 is because these companies need something
 entirely different than a true enterprise
 or a true consumer company.
 And when we looked back at our early portfolio
 of Shield AI, Anderole, Estrontos,
 these companies that were sort of what I would call
 space and defense 1.0,
 we'd sort of like put them in the enterprise category
 as though they're like no different
 than a company that's selling business software
 to the Fortune 500, right?
 It doesn't make any sense.
 They have totally different needs.
 You know, Anderole's famously said
 that they had a lobbyist on staff on week one.
 There's things that companies need
 that our view is that we could build a platform
 to help support these companies,
 namely in Washington,
 understanding who their buyers are on the BD side,
 which is a very difficult kind of role
 to hire for inside of early stage startups,
 but then also understanding the Washington game,
 which is very important for companies to understand
 if they're going to be selling directly
 to the federal government.
 Now you mentioned education
 and there's a lot of companies in our portfolio too
 that are selling to state and local.
 And that is a totally different sales motion.
 You know, that is something where, you know,
 company like Flock Safety has sort of rewritten the rules
 of how you sell directly to a police force
 or how you even follow what I would call
 kind of like a second city strategy
 of not going to the biggest cities,
 but going to these smaller municipalities
 and getting a lot of, you know, almost circling
 a big city with the suburbs around it
 and kind of getting a lot of momentum from the citizens.
 But all these companies have very similar needs
 and sort of things that they have to think about early
 rather than later.
 And we've now seen enough of sort of the early success stories
 and public safety and, you know, aerospace, defense,
 like sort of these generational companies
 that came up in the last several years,
 that the boom that's happening in these categories,
 many of them want to replicate those playbooks
 and have, I think, with a lot of success.
 - Yeah, can you talk a little bit about almost like lobbying
 as value add for venture capital?
 I remember I was running an Andreessenback company
 a decade ago and I met the CEO of McDonald's
 through Andreessen at some happy hour
 and there were trainings on B2B sales and PR
 and all this stuff, but there was no concept
 of regulatory or lobbying.
 But I imagine that's a piece of it,
 but it's at the same time you need to eventually staff
 your own government affairs team.
 How are you working with early stage founders
 to get them up and running in Washington?
 - Yeah, I would say a lot of the founders that we backed
 are very, I would say, sophisticated in their knowledge
 of who they need to be meeting with
 or the types of people they should be meeting with
 and the DoD, but the thing that I think we're actually,
 I would say, even more successful in doing
 that's really important is making all that knowledge
 public, we make our playbooks public, like partner Layla
 who runs our go-to-market in DC.
 She wrote this incredible glossary of things you need
 to know if you're even going to approach
 a venture capital firm about a defense tech company.
 Like these are the acronyms.
 These are all the acronyms you could possibly hear
 at a conversation with the DoD.
 And it's things like that where we do want to make
 that public and we want to help educate the ecosystem.
 And I can tell you, like, five or six years ago,
 the number of venture capitalists who understood
 the different types of contracting vehicles
 that understood the names of different people
 on the Appropriations Committee.
 I mean, these things that are now sort of,
 I'd say, taken for granted, were not well known.
 And so I think that's a huge part of it too
 is really helping the ecosystem get up to speed,
 helping companies sort of speed run that early stage
 process of like, you can ask any dumb question
 and we're going to help you with it.
 But then there is also something to be said of,
 it is much easier to get a meeting with certain people
 if you are at a dinner that's sponsored by a group
 of people who are always in Washington.
 I mean, we have a Washington office now.
 We are fully staffed in terms of both Republicans
 and Democrats and people who work on both sides
 of the aisle, people who specialize in DoD's,
 people who specialize in certain types of the DoD.
 And I think that is like a very important thing
 to be able to say, okay, you need to meet
 with X, Y, and Z people or you need to understand
 the glossary before you can even begin
 to have those conversations.
 Do you think defense tech is now mature?
 It's oversaturated.
 I was joking with Jordy that I think world peace
 is like maybe six months away.
 And then I'm going to start poaching top defense tech
 talent to build the next generation
 of advertising optimization.
 'Cause I think that we just got to get them back
 in the-- - Get them back.
 - Get them back. - Get them back.
 - Get them back. - Get them back.
 - Get them to the company, you know it.
 - Yeah, yeah, yeah.
 But I mean, seriously, it does seem like--
 - That would be the most, you know,
 the open AI, you know, AGI is always six months away.
 - World peace is a-- - Defense tech founders
 need to just go like, yeah, just two billion more
 and like, world peace, world peace, yeah.
 - But I mean, there is a serious question here.
 Like, I know some people who are like,
 just so excited that they're jumping into things.
 But, you know, I'm not even in the industry,
 but I'm a little bit more tapped in.
 And I'm like, there are already seven companies
 working on that exact thing.
 I don't know if this is the best time.
 Is it worthwhile to steer, you know,
 these incredible hackers, these great entrepreneurs,
 like maybe towards the more tangential,
 hard tech problems.
 Like, what I see with like, but base power is doing
 is like, it's hard tech, it has defense roots,
 but it's not directly something that's on
 Andrew Rose Roadmap.
 What advice are you giving to kind of the entrepreneurs
 that are like in between things,
 thinking about serving the national interests,
 but not necessarily putting themselves
 on a collision course with a, you know,
 multi-billion dollar founder mode company?
 - So I'll say deterrence is the constant project, right?
 So like your whole, like the meme
 for maybe six months away from world peace.
 - Yeah, yeah, of course.
 I actually think that was part of the problem of 90s, right?
 Like, like seriously, that was a big problem.
 - Yeah, democracy will end of history.
 - End of history.
 - End of history.
 We flourish and we don't need to be working on these things.
 So it is very important that we've gone back
 almost to the roots of the DOD,
 saying like, hey, actually, we remember what it's like
 to be a country at war.
 And we need to be constantly focused
 on the next technologies.
 We need to be focused on deterrence,
 thinking about as deterrence,
 because we want to prevent war,
 but we have to be continuously building.
 So from that perspective, I think, again,
 we're only a few years into this real movement
 of Silicon Valley caring about working with the DOD.
 And I hope that it's a 30-year project.
 I think that's what we all really should be focused on,
 is making sure it's a 30-year project,
 and even longer than that.
 But to your point, what I think is so interesting
 about companies that are founded out of Android
 or out of SpaceX, we've done an analysis
 where we looked at all of the founders who've left SpaceX
 in the last like 10 years.
 And there's hundreds of companies that have been formed
 in just wildly different sectors,
 whether it's radiant nuclear, working on nuclear energy,
 custodian, which is in our portfolio,
 and they're building hypersonic weapons.
 I mean, some of the best founders are trained.
 I always say they go to the school at Elon Musk,
 they learn manufacturing, they learn production.
 And then they want to take that to something
 that is pretty low-hanging fruit.
 Like, they want to make sure that they're competing
 against the incumbents of yesterday
 who have not modernized their production,
 who've not modernized a lot of the technology
 that they're working on.
 And so, I think you see that with a lot of the,
 yes, there are some extremely crowded fields,
 but then there are also areas of defense
 that are really just boring and completely untouched.
 And you're seeing founders realize that too,
 that it's not something that's interesting
 to any of the existing companies,
 and it's low-hanging fruit.
 It'd be interesting to work on that,
 or they're interested in being a tier one supplier.
 We have a number of companies that are really focused
 on the supply chain aspect of defense,
 and they're partners to Andrewle,
 and they're partners to SpaceX,
 and other companies in the ecosystem.
 So you really are seeing founders
 like understand that question in a very sophisticated way,
 and say, okay, we're gonna go after the parts
 of the supply chain, or the things that DoD needs,
 that no one is focusing on.
 And that's been exciting to see too.
 >> Can you talk about M&A in defense tech broadly?
 Andrewle's done this very well.
 Saranak announced the deal last week,
 acquiring Gulfcraft.
 That feels super significant.
 I'm curious how you advise founders kind of broadly,
 when thinking about that.
 We actually had Augustus on from Rainmaker earlier,
 who had acquired a company in his space,
 but when's the right time to be thinking about that
 as somebody in defense tech,
 and yeah, what kind of opportunities
 do you think make the most sense?
 >> Totally.
 Well, I think, I mean, both Andrewle and Saranak,
 they have incredibly unique stories
 in terms of where they're operating,
 and sort of what they need to do in order to grow and scale,
 and they've done it at a speed that is just incredible.
 Like they have very sophisticated teams
 that know a lot about acquisition.
 I'd say for earlier stage companies,
 we're seeing more companies that are potentially interested
 in doing that, it can speed up innovation,
 it can speed up being able to work with certain customers,
 that's for sure if you're acquiring a certain capability
 so that you can sell to a major prime,
 that's something we've seen more of too,
 which is interesting and exciting.
 Like I don't think we were seeing that several years ago
 and now we're certainly seeing companies experiment with that.
 But when you said actually,
 I actually thought you were going towards something
 that I think is actually more likely
 to happen in the future,
 that hasn't happened in a long time.
 When you look at these existing prime companies,
 the big five say,
 they've really only acquired companies
 that have not raised any venture dollars, right?
 Like they don't acquire companies that are kind of seen
 as these bleeding edge companies
 to shore up their capabilities.
 And my instinct, you know,
 we're talking about Army Transformation Initiative,
 we're talking about a government
 that's becoming far more sophisticated
 and a D.O.G.D. that's becoming far more competitive, right?
 It hasn't been competitive for decades
 and now you're seeing all of these startups come in.
 My prediction, if we're looking five, 10 years out,
 is that the companies that have not been inquisitive
 for the best engineers and the best technologists
 and these capabilities that they need
 are going to find that as their only solution.
 And I think we could potentially even see
 another last supper situation,
 which of course in the '90s was the famous case
 where the government came to all these primes
 and said you have to merge,
 you have to have kind of forced mergers
 and acquisitions because the budget's going to decrease.
 And of course, that was probably the wrong strategy
 given sort of the results that came out of that.
 But I do think it is something that
 I would not be surprised if in five or 10 years,
 you're seeing the existing primes
 that have been around in many cases for 100 years
 saying we have to work with these startups
 in a much more tangible way
 and you could see a highly acquisitive ecosystem
 that people don't necessarily kind of write
 into their kind of thesis today.
 >> How do you think about leadership
 at the individual primes and, you know,
 people over the last few years,
 I mean Boeing has been dragged through the dirt
 by pretty much everyone,
 but I think of it as a great,
 in the fullness of time, it's a great company.
 >> It ain't Boeing, I ain't going.
 >> Yeah, John is John so loyal.
 >> It's so Boeing, I think you're an expert in life.
 We'll never fly on that.
 >> As a white-colored worker, you know,
 you don't risk your life very often.
 When I go on a business trip
 and I step on a 737 MAX, I'm watching.
 >> No, and I mean, I just look at it as,
 China would love to have a company
 that was actually competitive with Boeing, right?
 It's a hugely strategic asset.
 But I'm curious, do you think that, you know,
 any of the primes, you know,
 and every now and then you'll see a prime release of video
 that's like, clearly they hired a marketing agency
 and said, like, make us like an Andrewl movie, you know,
 and then they put it out,
 but do you see that the leadership at the primes?
 >> Well, Lockheed Martin invented artificial intelligence,
 remember?
 >> Yeah, they came out last week
 and claimed that they invented AI.
 >> They basically just said, you're welcome.
 >> You're welcome.
 >> Yeah, by the way, you're welcome.
 But I'm curious, do you have--
 >> Any hope for transformation?
 >> Yeah, do you have conversations with them
 or is it, is it--
 >> 'Cause, I mean, even though it's not an opportunity
 for, you know, venture capitalists, necessarily like,
 it would be great if they were highly functioning
 in the American interest.
 And then you have the program that was spun out of,
 you know, was it Microsoft or Microsoft to Andrewl?
 >> Oh, yeah, yeah, the HoloLens, yeah, sorry.
 >> So I think there's probably more,
 kind of even spin-out opportunities
 where new companies--
 >> Good collaboration, totally.
 >> You know, value on top of existing programs.
 >> Yeah, and I think, you know,
 Palmer and actually Brian Shimp has done
 an incredible podcast on this
 where he talks about sort of what happened
 at these primes and why things sort of went
 by the wayside and it's partially because
 they really stopped focusing on research and development.
 They sort of, they didn't really need to.
 There was no real competition
 and they kind of recognized that, you know,
 they would always get paid by the government
 to do new things, you know, again,
 like it's sort of this confluence of factors
 that led us to be, I don't really complacent.
 But I went back actually last night
 and was reading the first few pages
 of "The Kill Chain" by Christian Bros,
 which again, reading it, it was written, I believe,
 in 2019, things have changed so dramatically
 in terms of the conversation,
 but it's like going back in a time warp and saying,
 wow, like in 2019, people really didn't care
 that Boeing was collapsing
 or that there were these private
 or these public companies
 that were doing no research and development
 because it didn't matter, right?
 That was pre-war in Ukraine.
 It was sort of, you know, in some ways
 it was security theater, right?
 Like we don't actually have to remain secure.
 We just have to pretend we're secure.
 And so I think there is this new sort of wake-up call
 where a lot of these companies are going to say,
 one, if we can't recruit the engineers
 and do the research and development in-house,
 we're going to have to acquire it.
 So again, that's why I think you're going to see
 a lot more acquisitions over the next several years
 because I think a lot of these companies
 are really going to have to change.
 But two, like these initiatives inside the DOD
 that are now getting real steam,
 that is going to force incredible competition
 that has not existed.
 Even in the last 10 years
 when we've all been investing in American dynamism.
 So I'm actually much more like hopeful
 and excited about where I think the world is going
 because I genuinely believe that a lot of these players
 have sort of woken up
 but are looking for solutions
 'cause now they know they have to.
 - Yeah, yeah.
 A while ago I was talking to Trey
 about just the lack of the deeper supply chain,
 specifically in drone motors,
 like there are no small drone motor manufacturers
 in the United States, they're almost all made in China.
 And that feels like,
 oh, there's almost a startup idea there
 but I don't know if it's a venture idea.
 There's actually a drone motor company in Washington.
 They outsourced some of their supply chain recently.
 That feels like almost like we need
 an American dynamism private equity fund
 to just turn those companies around.
 They're not going to be these power law
 $100 billion companies
 but they might produce 20% returns more reliably
 and there's maybe no venture style zero loss of capital risk.
 Do you think we need a American dynamism for private equity?
 Is that something Andreessen would do at some point?
 I mean, you're kind of in every asset class now
 so anything's possible
 but is there a flip side to the venture model
 within investing in the national interest?
 - Well, I certainly think we've invested
 in some companies that are focused on component parts.
 - Sure.
 - You know, we're invested in Amka,
 I know that Jay is not recently.
 So like there are more and more companies
 that are figuring out how to do this.
 And again, those are the examples of companies
 that are much more focused on how do we acquire companies,
 how do we make them, I would say tech forward
 but also think about like how quickly we can get
 into the supply chain and some of these larger primes.
 But I think you're seeing a lot of innovation
 around the edges on this
 and you're probably going to see more and more founders
 who recognize that if that's where the real problem is,
 they're going to build there
 and they're going to build in the best way
 that suits them.
 - Yeah, it does seem like there's almost like a way
 to turn something like MP materials
 we were talking about, like you wouldn't think like,
 oh yeah, venture is suitable for like mining at all.
 But like now there's a couple of mining companies
 that are figuring out how to inject enough technology
 to make it potentially a venture scale opportunity.
 Which is interesting.
 Do you have anything else?
 I have a couple more.
 - I got a totally switching gears
 but you had a post recently that I liked.
 It was, I'm committed to doing
 whatever the opposite of gentle parenting is.
 And I wanted to ask you if you found any Lindy books
 on parenting, anything that's sort of resonated
 that you're implementing, John and I,
 both have similar aged children.
 And I always have this sort of concern around,
 you know, you want to experiment, you know,
 with parenting and try new things
 and maybe not just take exactly what the mainstream media
 says is the right way to do parenting,
 but then, you know, your children have one life.
 You're not trying to run AB tests, you know, on there.
 - I have three boys.
 So I employ what I call the snake pit strategy,
 which is you lock them all in a room.
 And then it's just a snake pit
 and they just like wrestle and, you know,
 if there's damage, they'll heal and that's fine.
 - That's the right way to do it.
 Well, I followed up that tweet with the tried and true
 Irish strategy, which is the hay method.
 - Yeah.
 - You just hay, you're loud.
 Yeah, hey, hey, hey, you know, it works.
 Like there's something about the first hay,
 where your son's actually turned around
 and listened to you.
 But sadly, you know, there aren't like any books,
 like old, timey books that I found
 that actually teach, I would say the best way
 to train children or to child rea,
 but you know, it's interesting.
 I always think that grandmothers kind of know best.
 So if there's a grandmother in your life anywhere,
 they remember how it used to be done
 and how effective it was.
 And it was probably harder in the olden days too.
 So it's like basically just ask grandma.
 Like grandma knows.
 - I would plug free-range kids all about,
 like our society has moved towards like,
 don't let the kids just run around in the neighborhood.
 They can get kidnapped.
 There's so many bad things that can happen.
 There's been a lot of fear mongering from the media.
 And so that's kind of led to kids turning in inside
 and becoming inside kids, staying on the iPads or whatever.
 But there's this movement and the free-range kids
 to just be like, yeah, actually like you're sick.
 So you can ride a bike, like ride your bike to the park.
 Like, and that will enforce the society to maintain safety.
 - I need to find the repeat of parenting.
 - Yeah.
 - That's the next alpha.
 - Yeah, my problem with the grandma method
 is that my mother and mother-in-law
 just want to let the kids do exactly what they want to do.
 You want two cookies?
 - That's good.
 - You want three cookies?
 So maybe they're right.
 - Maybe that is Lindy.
 - Maybe it is Lindy.
 - I'm the great grandmother, right?
 Like the one who remembers how tough it was.
 - Yeah, that's right.
 - I want to get your reaction to Warren Buffett.
 Obviously he stepped down or announced his transition
 at Berkshire Hathaway this weekend.
 What do you take away from Buffett's legacy as an investor?
 It's obviously a very different type of investing,
 but there's so many interesting lessons there
 from company building to investing to everything else.
 What was your reaction?
 - Yeah, you know, I'll take a little bit of a different take
 because I was watching the annual meeting last year,
 and there was this moment that happened,
 I actually wrote about it,
 and a piece on friendship and founder friendship,
 where he was doing his usual,
 going through company analysis,
 and then he just kind of forgets where he is
 and says, "Charlie."
 And everyone stopped.
 It was like, you know, I think I'm sure I've seen it
 because he was so in his zone.
 After so many years of working together,
 he had forgotten that Charlie had passed.
 And he's almost embarrassed about it,
 but I thought it was the most beautiful moment
 because one of the things I don't think we talk enough
 about in "Venture World" is founder friendship.
 And I mean like deep, deep friendship,
 not like, oh, we went to college together
 and we were friends or whatever,
 we're gonna start to start together.
 I mean, those people who like work together decades
 and decades out, I actually think this is why
 family business is often work better,
 where even if you look at the call us in brothers,
 it's like they've sharing resources, you know,
 since childhoods, since they can remember,
 and like there's something about going through life
 with someone, suffering with someone,
 understanding how to like, you know, end someone's sentences
 that leads to these just incredibly rich
 and beautiful companies.
 And I think if, you know, if we did an analysis
 in "Dreason Horowitz" and just looked at the companies
 that were true outliers, I think there would be stories
 of these people are like brothers and sisters
 and Andrew certainly this, right?
 Like it's, you know, the founders there
 were DARPA challenged together,
 like their first day of college, right?
 In some ways, there's something about just having
 these deep relationships that span the test of time
 where you're on a journey with someone
 that's real like Aristotelian friendship,
 not like faux friendship, but true love.
 And clearly you saw that with them.
 It's just a remarkable thing how they were able
 to kind of be true brothers and kind of, you know,
 each other's better half throughout their business career
 for as long as they were.
 - It's amazing.
 Last question, what should we do with Alcatraz?
 - Oh, you know, I love all the ideas
 of turning it into a casino, but I haven't seen that one.
 I like it.
 - I was saying, I was saying tax haven
 and no gender solicitation rules.
 You know, like go out there and sell your angel
 of those kinds of periods.
 Just unfettered libertarian capitalism out there.
 - That sounds good.
 But there is something about bringing it back
 in its original form.
 You know, it's like there is something about these
 buildings that the president likes to restore
 into their former glory.
 And so if Alcatraz is the case,
 like to keep the historical deal tails accurate,
 you can kind of see where it's coming from.
 He's definitely a historic system in that regard.
 - Okay.
 Well, thank you so much for joining us.
 This was fantastic.
 - Yeah, this was great.
 - That's fun.
 Thanks for having me.
 Have a good one.
 - We'll talk soon.
 (upbeat music)
 - Thanks for listening to the A16Z podcast.
 If you enjoyed the episode, let us know
 by leaving a review at ratethispodcast.com/A16Z.
 We've got more great conversations coming your way.
 See you next time.
 (upbeat music)
 (upbeat music)
 [BLANK_AUDIO]
