--- METADATA START ---
Show: N/A
Episode: The Era of AI Experimentation … - The AI Daily Brief (Formerly The AI Breakdown): Artificial Intelligence News and Analysis
Host: Unknown
GUESTS: None
Guests: None
Source URL: https://podcasts.apple.com/us/podcast/the-era-of-ai-experimentation-is-over/id1680633614?i=1000706745735
--- METADATA END ---

 Today on the AI Daily Brief, why the era of AI experimentation is over?
 Before then in the headlines, do we have a new king of AI coding?
 The AI Daily Brief is a daily podcast and video about the most important news and discussions
 in AI.
 Thanks to today's sponsors KPMG, Blitzy, and Super Intelligent, and to get an ad-free
 version of the show, go to patreon.com/ai-dailybrief.
 Welcome back to the AI Daily Brief Headlines Edition, all the daily AI news you need
 in around 5 minutes.
 Google has just announced a new version of its Gemini 2.5 Pro they're calling it the
 I/O edition, and it is specifically aimed at coding and apparently does so very well.
 So is Google's new update to Gemini 2.5 Pro, the top model for coding assistance?
 Well, let's discuss it.
 Since Curseur picked up steam late last year, there's been a pretty strong consensus that
 anthropics cloud models are the ones to use for AI coding.
 There was a brief scuffle at the end of last year with the release of O1, but anthropics
 quickly answered with cloud 3.7s on it, which, for many, remains the standard.
 Google's new Gemini 2.5 Pro I/O edition does seem to upset the leaderboard on the benchmarks
 at least suggesting its head and shoulders above the competition.
 Google DeepMind CEO Demisysabas announced the launch writing, "very excited to share
 the best coding model we've ever built.
 Today, we're launching Gemini 2.5 Pro Preview I/O edition with massively improved coding
 capabilities.
 It goes on and says, 'it's especially good at building interactive web apps, and then
 shares a demo of an app that gets prototyped just from a simple line drawing.
 Now the model is now ranked #1 on Ela Marina and Coding, as well as #1 on WebDev Arena.
 Both of those benchmarks are subjective, with users selecting their favorite between
 two competing outputs from rival models.
 There's been a lot of criticism recently around how valid this method is for chat
 bot outputs, with humans being easy to sway with things like emoji use and verbosity,
 but it does feel like these could be a better strategy for rating the outputs from coding
 assistance, with there being less of those sort of simple triggers shaping which output
 users prefer.
 What's more, the numbers are not particularly close.
 Going from ELO scores on WebDev Arena, there's as much daylight between these two models
 as there was between 3.7 Sonnet and the initial release of Gemini 2.5 Pro.
 On Ela Marina, the model achieved the #1 ranking across all categories which is extremely
 unusual.
 The model is proprietary, so users can only access it through Google's Web Services.
 Cost remains the same as the older version which is around 2/3 of the price of 3.7 Sonnet.
 Users can get free access through the Gemini app if they enable Canvas 2, but you'll
 need to pay if you want to plug the API into your IDE.
 Now early reviews are very positive.
 Google's Logan Kilpatrick shared a quote from Silas Elberti, a member of the founding
 team of Cognition who said, "The updated Gemini 2.5 Pro achieves leading performance
 on our junior Dev Evals.
 It was the first ever model that solved one of our Evals involving a larger refractor
 of a request routing back-end.
 It felt more like a senior developer because it was able to make correct judgment calls
 and choose good abstractions."
 Ramesh R, Vibe-coded a candy-crush clone writing, "One-shot coding with sound effects.
 The casual game industry is dead.
 Took it less than a minute."
 Pietro Chirano, the CEO of EverArt, coded up a 3D simulation of a guerrilla fighting
 100 men, latching onto a current meme.
 In Hyperbolic Labs, CTO Yuchin Jin wrote, "This model is now my top coding model.
 It beats O3 and Cloud 3.7 sawn it on several of my hard prompts."
 Google, call it Gemini 3.
 Ethan Molik did a practical test of the model's ultra long context window commenting,
 pretty awesome results from the new version of Gemini 2.5.
 I changed one line of War and Peace, inserting a sentence into Book 14, Chapter 10 about
 Half-Where Through, where Princess Mary spoke to Crabman, the superhero.
 Gemini 2.5 consistently found this reference among 860,000 tokens.
 He did notes in weird quirks of prompting, adding, "If you don't tell it to read everything,
 sometimes it is lazy, though, and doesn't go through the text."
 AI is weird.
 Now, not everyone is universally on the I/O train, software engineer Dylan Norman
 Dinn writes, "I'm underwhelmed by the latest Gemini 2.5 Pro update, seems significantly
 worse as a pair program in the previous version.
 Same thing happened when we went from sawn at 3.5 to sawn at 3.7.
 The technical ability of the AI may have improved, but the user experience suffered.
 Maybe more damning is this tweet from Signal who writes, "Gemini is technically great,
 but feels like talking to a corporate help desk that's read too many HR manuals.
 No edge, no warmth, no subtext.
 Lack of custom instructions doesn't help either.
 For coding via third-party apps it's fine, but for anything that requires vibe, intuition,
 or taste, I'll take clawed or GPT every time."
 Still, if for some the vibes are off overall it seems like a great update, and this version
 of course comes out ahead of Google's I/O conference which is kicking off in two weeks' time.
 I'm always excited to see what Google shares at that event, and this is nothing but increase
 that excitement.
 Next up, open-source platform Huggingface has released a free computer use agent.
 Called Open Computer Agent, the free tool is similar to OpenAI's operator and its
 features.
 It can access the web and tackle basic agent tasks.
 However, at least currently, its performance leaves a lot to be desired.
 TechCrunch reports that it got tripped on attempting to book flights and is generally
 pretty sluggish.
 Now, Huggingface, for their part, said that the goal wasn't to build the state-of-the-art
 computer use agent, but rather to demonstrate that open-source models are becoming more
 capable and are cheap to use on cloud infrastructure.
 One of the big blockers during this early stage of agent deployment has been that the
 cost can be unworkable for anything complex.
 I'm Eric Ruscher from Huggingface wrote, "As vision models become more capable they
 become able to power complex agentic workflows."
 And ultimately it feels more like this is a proof of concept, and a demonstration
 of the advancements in open-source agents than anything else.
 Lasted today, an area of AI that we haven't checked in on for a while, AI Startup Light
 Tricks has released a powerful new video model that can run on consumer hardware.
 The new model called LTX Video is a 13 billion perimeter video model, which theoretically
 operates 30 times faster than comparable models on consumer-grade GPUs.
 That's a big enough jump to take video generation from impossible to functional
 for workstation use.
 It also means that cost has collapsed, with Light Tricks claiming roughly a 10x cost decrease
 against leading competitors.
 CEO Zev Farben writes, "The introduction of our 13 billion perimeter LTX Video Model
 marks a pivotal moment in AI video generation with the ability to generate fast, high-quality
 videos on consumer GPUs.
 Our users can now create content with more consistency, better quality, and tighter
 control."
 The trick appears to be a feature called multi-scale rendering.
 The model generates video in progressive layers of detail, massively increasing
 efficiency.
 As I explained, it allows the model to generate details gradually.
 You're starting on the course-grade, getting a rough approximation of the scene, of the
 motion, of the objects moving, et cetera.
 And then the scene is kind of divided into tiles, and every tile is filled with progressively
 more details.
 This method allows the model to fit within the memory limits of consumer GPUs, while
 rival models from Luma and Runway typically need beefier enterprise-grade hosted hardware.
 Farben says that the memory limit restricts tile size, not the overall resolution as
 it would with other models.
 Quality seems up to scratch from the available samples.
 Although at this point we're basically past the point where there's a big gap in quality
 on video models, and many of the selling points have moved to cost and availability.
 The model is now fully available as open-source so you can try it out on hugging face, or
 take it for a spin at home if you have a reasonably powerful GPU.
 For now though, that is going to do it for today's AI Daily Brief Headlines edition.
 Next up, the main episode.
 Today's episode is brought to you by KPMG.
 In today's fiercely competitive market, unlocking AI's potential could help give
 you a competitive edge, faster growth, and drive new value.
 But here's the key.
 You don't need an AI strategy.
 You need to embed AI into your overall business strategy to truly power it up.
 KPMG can show you how to integrate AI and AI agents into your business strategy in
 a way that truly works and is built on trusted AI principles and platforms.
 Check out real stories from KPMG to hear how AI is driving success with its clients
 at www.kpmg.us/ai again, that's www.kpmg.us/ai
 Today's episode is brought to you by Blitzy, the enterprise autonomous software development
 platform with infinite code context, which if you don't know exactly what that means
 yet, do not worry we're going to explain and it's awesome.
 So Blitzy is used alongside your favorite code and co-pilot as your batch software
 development platform for the enterprise, and it's meant for those who are seeking
 dramatic development acceleration on large-scale code bases.
 Traditional co-pilots help developers with line-by-line completions and snippets,
 but Blitzy works ahead of the IDE.
 First documenting your entire code base, then deploying more than 3,000 coordinated
 AI agents working in parallel to batch build millions of lines of high-quality code
 for large-scale software projects.
 So then, whether it's code base refactors, modernizations, or bulk development of
 your product roadmap, the whole idea of Blitzy is to provide enterprise's dramatic
 velocity improvement.
 To put it in simpler terms, for every line of code eventually provided to the human
 engineering team, Blitzy will have written it hundreds of times, validating the output
 with different agents to get the highest quality code to the enterprise in batch.
 Projects then that would normally require dozens of developers working for months can
 now be completed with a fraction of the team in weeks, empowering organizations to
 dramatically shorten development cycles and bring products to market faster than ever.
 If your enterprise is looking to accelerate software development, whether it's large-scale
 modernization, refactoring, or just increasing the rate of your STLC, contact Blitzy at
 Blitzy.com, that's BLITZY.com, to book a custom demo, or just press get started
 and start using the product right away.
 Today's episode is brought to you by Super Intelligent, and more specifically, our agent,
 Readiness Audits.
 Every company right now is in the midst of a discovery process trying to figure out
 how autonomous agents are going to change both how they work internally, as well as
 the way they service their customers, and even what products they actually offer.
 Agent Readiness Audits are the fastest, most efficient way to find out where and how agents
 can have the biggest impact on your business.
 We deploy a custom-designed voice agent to interview teams and leaders, run that through
 a hybrid human AI analysis process to produce an agent reading a score, plus a set of
 insights and actionable recommendations for both what agent use cases are likely
 to drive the most value, and what you need to do internally to be most ready to seize
 those opportunities.
 Under the audit, there are a variety of next steps.
 We can dive deep and provide an action planning report on one or more of the specific use
 cases.
 We also provide leadership accountability, coaching, to help support internal change
 management, or you can turn your audits into RFPs on our marketplace.
 So go to bsuper.ai or email us agents@bsuper.ai to learn more about Agent Readiness Audits.
 Welcome back to the AI Daily Brief.
 Today we have an interesting show for you.
 I'm going to try to take a couple of different news items from the last week or so and bring
 them together to articulate or argue for a trend that I'm seeing.
 And that is, in short, the shift in mentality, particularly among enterprises and businesses
 when it comes to AI.
 Briefly put, I think that we are moving out of a period where gen AI feels like an
 exciting and important yet experimental and unproven and still unknown force into
 something where it is inevitable, essential, and omnipresent.
 And my argument is that this is a sense that's more broadly held.
 This isn't just me arguing something.
 It's something that I think you're seeing in the ether.
 The thing that kicked this off for me and why I decided to talk about this today was
 a post from IBM's VP of product for AI platform, Armand Ruiz, who writes, "The
 era of AI experimentation is over.
 It's time to operationalize AI agents in the enterprise."
 Now the specific genesis for this is that IBM is now underway with its Think2025 conference.
 And this is very much the theme.
 IBM rolled out a full stack, agent, offering, including pre-built agents for HR sales
 and procurement platforms for agent orchestration, observability, and governance.
 The company also announced new partnerships with Cerribris and Oracle to make their
 AI available on those platforms.
 And while all that's awesome and great and you should check out what IBM has to
 offer, that's not really the point of the show.
 The point is that they are now arguing in explicit and clear terms that enterprises
 should be past the point of tinkering with projects, throwing small teams at pilots,
 and instead should be thinking about big structural changes to how they operate.
 Now interestingly, IBM is also putting their money where their mouth is.
 They are dogfooding this in a direct way.
 CEO Arvind Krishna revealed that the company has used AI agents to replace a couple
 of hundred HR workers entirely.
 They're also making heavy use of the technology across their entire workforce.
 Now Krishna emphasized that the adoption of agents so far has been additive rather
 than viewed as a cost-cutting measure.
 He said, "While we've done a huge amount of work inside IBM leveraging AI and automation
 on certain enterprise workflows, our total employment has actually gone up.
 Because what it does is it gives you more investment to put into other areas."
 This touches on a theme that I talk about frequently, which is that the fact that
 AI is coming for basically all of our jobs does not a priority mean that we're not
 going to have jobs.
 There is a decision that enterprises and organizations get to make on how to reinvest
 the savings that they get from AI-related gains.
 Some will, yes, just hack headcount.
 It is inevitable, and that's going to be a part of what we discussed later.
 But others are going to make a bet that the better play long-term is to reinvest
 those savings into better products, better services, better support, basically all
 the things that make them better able to compete and win new business.
 So for example, in IBM's case, they reallocated resources from HR into hiring more sales
 people and programmers.
 Krishna commented that for them, these are critical thinking domains where people need
 to do things that face up or against other humans as opposed to just doing rote process
 work.
 Krishna also highlighted just how fast the entire space is moving.
 He commented, "Over the next few years, we expect there will be over a billion new
 applications constructed using generative AI.
 AI is one of the unique technologies that can hit at the intersection of productivity,
 cost savings, and revenue scaling."
 Effectively, he's arguing that there is essentially no wrong way to deploy AI at
 the moment, whether your intent is to cut costs, push productivity, design new paths
 to growth.
 The only so-called wrong way to do AI is to get stuck in infinite pilots, rather
 than really thinking at-scale operationalized terms.
 Fenderbeat writes, "At the heart of IBM's announcement is a recognition that organizations
 are shifting from isolated AI experiments to coordinated deployment strategies that
 require enterprise-grade capabilities."
 Vertica Gunnar, the general manager for data and AI at IBM, said we're trying to bridge
 the gap from where we are today, which is thousands of experiments, into enterprise-grade
 deployments, which require the same kind of security, governance, and standards that
 we demand on mission-critical applications.
 Gunnar believes that the next big challenge is moving from a place where you have a
 handful of agents doing isolated tasks to operationalizing multi-agent systems that
 can generate serious ROI.
 He said we really believe that we're entering into an era of systems of true intelligence.
 And yet already, AI is moving the needle.
 IBM say that 94% of HR requests at the company are now handled by their agents, and they
 also say that they've reduced procurement times by 70% using agentic workflows.
 Now, okay, again, this was presented in the context of a big sales conference more
 or less, and so one could be forgiven for being a little bit skeptical, right?
 It is clearly in IBM's interest to have everyone believe that the era of AI experimentation
 is over.
 But there is plenty of other evidence of looking around that this sentiment is shared
 more broadly.
 We've covered extensively the results from the recent KPMG Q1 AI Pulse survey.
 That survey, which focuses on companies of a billion dollars in revenue or more, found
 that more than three quarters of organizations were piloting or deploying agents currently
 with another 25% exploring the possibility.
 But even more than that, there's been a total shift in the ubiquity and normalness
 of individual employees using these tools as well.
 Daily productivity tool use, in other words, people just using chat, GBT, or co-pilot
 or whatever, is up from 22% last quarter to 58% this quarter.
 Every other metric that they surveyed around this sort of regular usage was up as well.
 The deployment of agents is also clearly starting to pick up.
 61% of companies said they now have call center agents, 68% said they have a customer
 facing AI agent, and 66% said they have agents performing administrative tasks
 like scheduling.
 Those figures were all around 20% in Q4.
 So again, big jumps.
 Now let's go to market logic.
 You might remember about a year ago, we had this barrage of articles about how maybe
 AI was kind of a bubble.
 This was probably best captured by the Goldman Sachs piece.
 Gen AI, too much spend, too little benefit.
 Meanwhile, fast forward a year, and Goldman analysts are looking at big tech earnings,
 where AI revenue lines of business are all growing, and basically arguing that right
 now is a buy the dip opportunity because of the pricing of AI stocks.
 And then there's the shift in tonality around jobs.
 One of my great frustrations, as many of you well know, has been the comfortable lives
 we tell ourselves.
 These are best expressed in phrases like AI won't take your job, a person using AI
 will take your job.
 And while yes, it is the case that everyone who performs well in the AI and agent economy
 will be fully versed in using AI, I believe that this is to use a word like the kids
 use cope.
 I think that AI is coming for a huge portion of what we do.
 The question is how fast and how well we redesign what we do to take advantage of
 what AI offers, rather than clinging to these set of tasks that used to compromise
 our jobs, increasingly, you are seeing this language in this recognition actually come
 to market over the last month.
 We had the CEO of Shopify write a long letter to his team talking about the AI revolution
 and specifically noting that teams will have to show that they tried to use AI and couldn't
 successfully do it before they get more budget for headcount.
 Duolingo followed just last week, basically explicitly saying that they are going to
 be moving from contractor generated content to AI generated content.
 Now it wasn't like this was the first move for Duolingo here.
 The company had cut 10% of its contractor workforce back at the end of 2023.
 And there was reportedly another round of cuts in October of 2024, with both translators
 and writers being replaced with AI.
 But then we got maybe the most pointed expression of this from the CEO of Fiver.
 Fivercy EO Mika Coffin wrote, "I've always believed in radical candor and despise those
 who sugarcoat reality to avoid stating the unpleasant truth.
 The very basis for radical candor is care.
 You care enough about your friends and colleagues to tell the truth, because you want them
 to be able to understand it, grow, and succeed."
 So, here is the unpleasant truth.
 AI is coming for your jobs.
 Heck, it's coming for my job too.
 This is a wake-up call.
 It does not matter if you're a programmer, designer, product manager, data scientist,
 lawyer, customer support rep, salesperson, or a finance person, AI is coming for you.
 You must understand that what was once considered easy tasks will no longer exist.
 What was considered hard tasks will be the new easy, and what was considered impossible
 tasks will be the new hard.
 If you do not become an exceptional talent at what you do, a master, you will face
 the need for a career change in a matter of months.
 I'm not trying to scare you.
 I'm not talking about your job at Fiver.
 I'm talking about your ability to stay in your profession in the industry.
 Are we all doomed?
 Not all of us, but those who will not wake up and understand the new reality fast,
 are unfortunately doomed.
 Now he then goes into a set of "suggestions" for what people can do, and interestingly,
 in this case, he's not announcing some new policies alongside it.
 He concludes his note, "If you don't like what I wrote, if you think I'm full
 of poop or just an a-hole who's trying to scare you, be my guest in disregard
 this message.
 I love all of you and wish you nothing but good things, but I honestly don't think
 that a promising professional future awaits you if you disregard reality.
 If on the other hand you understand deep inside that I'm right and want all of
 us to be on the winning side of history, join me in a conversation about where we
 go from here as a company and as individual professionals.
 We have a magnificent company and a bright future ahead of us.
 We just need to wake up and understand that it won't be pretty or easy.
 It will be hard and demanding but damn well worth it.
 This message is food for thought.
 I've asked Shelley to free up time on my calendar in the next few weeks so that
 those of you who wish to sit with me and discuss our future can do so.
 Now this is certainly the most assertive language that we've seen around this,
 but I think that it reflects a lot of what leaders in companies are thinking.
 So what does this all mean?
 Well the good news is that there's a difference between organizations waking
 up to a mindset shift.
 And no longer questioning whether this is the future, but now actively and assertively
 moving towards this future, and on the other hand actually being in the future.
 Yes, that growth line for example in the KPMG survey is super strong and clear.
 But 58% of people using productivity tools on a daily basis means that still 42% aren't.
 There is a window.
 There is a moment in time and this is what the CEO of Fiverr was articulating as well,
 where there is an opportunity to start to adapt.
 For me personally I find it quite encouraging that we're not having the conversation that
 tiptoes into this future, but that is confronting it head on.
 I think the only way that we assertively exert our control and our agency over the
 shape of this future is to recognize it.
 And we do have agency here.
 What organizations don't get to decide is how the technology is going to develop and
 whether it's going to change the shape of what they do and how they do it.
 What they do get to decide is how proactively they transform themselves for that new future.
 What they do get to decide is what their position vis-a-vis their own employees
 is going to be.
 What they do get to decide is how they're going to reinvest the inevitable savings
 that come from robots doing a bunch of the jobs that people do now.
 And none of those things leads to the dystopian nightmare scenarios that people
 so often inevitably assume are true.
 I continue to be incredibly bullish and optimistic about the future where we are all
 super powered and super intelligent.
 But the TLDR is that I agree with our mantra here.
 The era of AI experimentation, at least from a mindset perspective and viewing it
 simply as experimentation is over.
 So friends, let's dive in all the way.
 For now, that's going to do it for today's AI Daily Brief.
 Appreciate you listening or watching, as always, and until next time, peace.
 [MUSIC]
 (upbeat music)
