--- METADATA START ---
Show: a16z Podcast
Episode: The State of Consumer Tech in …
Host: Unknown
GUESTS: Justine Moore, Olivia Moore, Brian Cho, Anish Acharya 
Guests: Justine Moore, Olivia Moore, Brian Cho, Anish Acharya
Source URL: https://podcasts.apple.com/us/podcast/the-state-of-consumer-tech-in-the-age-of-ai/id842818711?i=1000711813773
--- METADATA END ---

1
I think in the future you're going to see consumer spam to be food, rent, software.
2
All of the aspects of our lives are going to be intermediated by the models and we're going to pay for that.
3
The definition of what a companion is has evolved so quickly from either a friend or a girlfriend to anything, any advice or wisdom or entertainment or counsel you could have gotten from a human before.
4
Maybe you just need to feel connected to something that doesn't need to be human.
5
I think it's been a puzzle to me what the first AI social network is going to look.
6
To work, a social network has to have real emotional stakes.
7
We're living in this early era of AI where velocity is the mode.
8
For decades, consumer tech followed a similar beat.
9
New platforms, new behaviors, new breakouts.
10
Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, Snap, TikTok.
11
But lately, that rhythm has changed.
12
And so has the nature of what we mean by consumer.
13
In this conversation, we bring together A16Z's consumer and AI investing minds to ask, what is the state of consumer in the AI era?
14
You'll hear how creative tools Midjourney and VO are reshaping expression, how voice is becoming the new interface, and how companions, AI ones, are filling in social white spaces.
15
We talk about retention and revenue curves, defensibility beyond network effects, and why velocity might be the new moat.
16
We also get speculative.
17
What happens when AI knows you better than your friends do?
18
What does the next social platform look?
19
And are we heading towards a world where software, not shoes, not handbags, is the new luxury good?
20
This episode is about new form factors, new business models, and a new definition of connection.
21
Let's get into it.
22
As a reminder, the content here is for informational purposes only, should not be taken as legal business, tax, or investment advice, or be used to evaluate any investment or security, and is not directed at any investors or potential investors in any A16Z fund.
23
Please note that A16Z and its affiliates may also maintain investments in the companies discussed in this podcast.
24
For more details, including a link to our investments, please see a16z.com forward slash disclosures.
25
It seems every few years there was a breakout starting from Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, Snap, WhatsApp, Tinder, TikTok.
26
Every few years, there was this new paradigms, new breakout.
27
And it feels at some point a few years ago, that just stopped.
28
Why did it stop or did it stop?
29
Would you reframe how we should think about that?
30
And where do we go from here?
31
I would argue probably ChatGPT was a huge consumer outcome and winner in the past few years.
32
And we've also seen a bunch of other ones in various other modalities of AI in image and video and audio companies Midjourney and 11 Labs and Black Force Labs.
33
Now things Kling and VO.
34
Weirdly though, a lot of them don't have the same social or traditional consumer dynamics that you mentioned.
35
I think because AI is still relatively early and so much of the new products and innovation has been driven by research teams who are so good at training models, but historically have not been amazing at creating the consumer product layer around them.
36
So I think the optimistic view is that the models are now mature enough and many are available either open source or via API for people to build great, more traditional consumer products on top of them.
37
It's interesting that you asked that question because I was thinking about the past what, 15 years, 20 years, where, as you said, Google, Facebook, Uber, all the names.
38
And it's interesting because when you think about internet, mobile, cloud, everything together, there were all these amazing names, and you asked, Has that slowed down?
39
I think the cloud, mobile, all that had a lot of maturity baked in.
40 the platform was around for 10, 15 years.
41
Every little nooks and cranny that has been explored to some extent, the changes that people had to adopt was Apple coming out with new features.
42
As opposed to changes that people need to adopt now is underlying relentless model updates.
43
So I think that's one different.
44
But the other thing is, again, Justine, you touched on this, but if I think about the past historical winners, there's information area Google of the world.
45
And now I think ChatGPT is certainly doing that.
46
And they're the utility we missed out, Box and Dropbox of the world.
47
It are more consumer-persumer-y that people use, where we also see a lot of the companies attracting and going after that use case.
48
Expression, creativity, same thing.
49
The creative tools are endless, and that's happening.
50
What I think is missing potentially is connection, this social graph.
51
This thing hasn't rebuilt on AI yet, and that may be just a white space or something that we just continue to see what develops there.
52
It's interesting because Facebook's almost 20 years ago at this point.
53 the companies that you mentioned, Justine, aside from ChatGPT and OpenAI, are they going to be around 10, 20 years?
54, what is the defensibility of the companies we're talking about?
55
And also the use cases of all the companies I mentioned.
56
Are they going to be disrupted by these new players?
57
Or in 10 years from now, will they continue to be the mainstream application for all those use cases that they serve?
58, you could argue that ChatGPT has got way higher business model quality than analogous consumer companies from the last product cycles, right?
59
Their top SKU is $200 a month.
60
At the top, Google consumer SKU is $250 a month.
61
So, sure, there's a question of defensibility, networks, all these other things, but that might have been a response to the poor business model quality that would have occurred if you didn't have those things.
62
Now, you can just charge people a lot of money, and perhaps we've been overthinking it previously.
63
Yeah, it was poor business model quality, maybe stronger retention or product market or durability.
64
Yeah, you had to have a story for how this was compounding enterprise value in the absence of just making money right away.
65
And now, these models and these companies are just making money right away.
66
Yeah.
67
I think the other thing is, Justine, you talked about this, all the foundation models are pointy in different ways.
68
So, you could say, look, Claude and the ChatGPT horizontal model and the Gemini model, aren't they interchangeable?
69
And doesn't that mean price pressure?
70
But different people use them for different things, and it seems they're raising prices, not lowering them.
71
So, I think when you zoom in a little closer, you see that there are some interesting defensibility dynamics that are already there.
72
The increasing price not decreasing at an interesting point because monetization is clearly a different thing from previous era to AI era, especially for consumer companies.
73
They're making money right away.
74
One thing that's always on my mind, and Olivia, tell me if you think that's not correct, but the retention, when we talked about retention of the consumer subscription model before AI, I don't know if we try to make a differentiation between unique user retention and revenue retention because they're the same.
75, you don't get to change pricing that often, you don't get to upgrade.
76, it's the same thing.
77
As opposed to now, we make a very clear differentiation between unique user retention and revenue retention because people upgrade.
78
They have all these credits and points they need to overages that they end up spending.
79
So, you see revenue retention being meaningfully higher than unique user retention, which again, I haven't seen that before.
80
So, yeah, I think before the average consumer subscription was maybe $50 a year.
81
If that, that was a lot.
82 the best-in-class consumer products would charge that.
83
And now we have people very happily paying $200 a month.
84
Wow.
85
And even saying in some cases that they feel they're being undercharged for that or they would pay more.
86
How do we explain that?
87
What value are they getting such that they're paying more?
88
I think it's doing work for them.
89 consumer subscriptions in the past were on things, I don't know, personal finance, fitness, wellness, things that.
90
Entertainment.
91
Yeah.
92
But they were things that ostensibly would help you help yourself, entertain yourself, but you would have to invest a lot of time to get the value from them.
93
And now with products Deep Research, for example, that could replace 10 hours of generating a market report by yourself.
94
And so that thing is easily worth, I think, for many people, $200 a month, even on one or two generations.
95, I think things too, VO3, people are paying $250 a month.
96
Unfortunately, I've since it's a limited, the $250 plan.
97
I've since charged several more of the $50 credit back.
98
So I probably spent, if I had to guess, over $500 in the first few weeks of each other.
99
Your revenue retention is higher.
100
Exactly.
101
And I'm happy to pay that because it's you have this suddenly, it feels a magical mystery box that you can open it and get whatever video you want, only for eight seconds.
102
But it's incredible.
103
And the characters can talk and you can make amazing things that you can share with friends, make personal memes of someone delivering a message to your friend with their name in it, create full stories that people are posting on Twitter and Reddit and all of these different places.
104
It's nothing we've seen before in terms of what consumer products can do for people.
105
It seems every part of consumer discretionary spend is going to be overtaken by software.
106
And I think in the future, you're going to see consumer spend to be food, rent, software.
107
And that's where we're going with Justine's speaking to.
108
And can you give some examples of that?
109
Well, a lot of it is what Olivia said, right?
110
So I think all the entertainment is being subsumed by it.
111
A lot of the creative expression work that you would do outside of software is now being subsumed by it.
112
A lot of the relationship intermediation, which might have been a place where disposable income spend, is being subsumed by it.
113
So all of the aspects of our lives are going to be intermediated by the models, and we're going to pay for that.
114
Brian, you're saying what we're still missing is connection from this new paradigm, and people are still relying on Instagram, Twitter, some of the other social networks of the past.
115
What's going to get us to something new here in the realm of connection?
116
Or has that just been one data network effect?
117
It's funny.
118
When I think about social, which is a category that I get so excited about, at the end of the day, a lot of it was status update, right?
119
Facebook, Twitter, Snap.
120
It's just, here's what I'm doing.
121
And through status update, you feel connected to that person.
122
And that status update showed up in different modalities.
123
It used to be, here's what I am, here's what I'm doing, to actual photos of where you are and what you're doing to videos and short-form videos now.
124
So now people feel connected to others through reels and what have you.
125
So I think that has been one era of feeling connected with others.
126
Now the question is, how can AI help that?
127
How can AI feel you're connected to other human beings and know what's going on in your friend's life?
128
The truth is, if I just think of a modality of photo, video, audio type things, I think a lot of it has been explored.
129
Different versions and mutations of that have been explored quite extensively, especially on mobile.
130
I think where we could get to is it's funny I don't know about you guys but I pour my heart and soul into chat GPT knows more about me than probably Google potentially which is an insane thing to say Google I've been Google for a decade plus and ChatGPT may know more about me than Google because I type more I tell it more I give more context what might connection feel when that essence of me is shareable with others and I don't know if that's the next version of feeling connected but I can certainly see a world where that is that resonates with a lot of folks nowadays younger generation etc that are tired of just looking at the surface level stuff we already see some examples of exactly that where there's all these viral trends where people are I ask my chat GPT based on everything about me write my five strengths or weaknesses or make an image of who you think the essence of me is or make a comic about my life and people are sharing those everywhere I posted one the other day and within minutes I had dozens of people responding with their own and sharing stuff people I didn't even know I think the interesting thing though is so far the social behavior that has come from the AI creative tools largely but also things chat GPT is still happening on the existing social platforms and not in the new AI platforms Facebook now is a lot of AI content potentially unbeknownst to some of the audio Facebook is the boomer AI slop and then Reddit and Reels are the younger people AI content.
131
That's tragic.
132
Yeah.
133
I agree.
134
I think it's been a puzzle to me what the first AI social network is going to look.
135
Because we've seen attempts at, for example, a feed of pictures of you that are AI generated.
136
And I think the problem there is that to work, a social network has to have real emotional stakes.
137
And if you can generate the content in a way that you it and you always look amazing and you always look happy and you're always in a cool background, it doesn't have the same sense of stakes.
138
And so I don't think we've seen the version of what a ground up AI social network was.
139
You use the words cumorphic.
140
A lot of the AI social products that mimics Instagram feed or Twitter feed was bots and AIs.
141
That feels cumorphic.
142
That feels this is what it used to look.
143
We're going to do it, but it was AI.
144
And maybe that's not really the form factor.
145
And,, there's an additional hurdle in my mind that a true consumer product probably needs to leave immobile.
146
And for AI products to work really, really well, I think there's still a little bit of work where the cutting edge models can do to live on edge, live on the device side of things to really enable that.
147
So I'm also excited to see what happens there.
148
It seems people recommendation is the obvious use case at some point.
149 who would be good for me to start a business with?
150
Who would be good for me to be friends with?
151
Who would be good for me to date?
152
These platforms get all this information about us.
153
Connect the dots.
154, I think an interesting area that's maybe informed,, where this all goes is if you look at the AI native LinkedIn efforts, the observation is that LinkedIn is a pointer to what instead of containing what.
155
And with this tech, we can create a profile that contains what so I can talk to a synthetic ET and get all of your wisdom.
156
Perhaps that's what future social looks as well.
157
That's what you're talking about, Justine, right?
158
If the models already know who you are, then is there a synthetic you you can deploy in an interesting way to interact with people?
159
I don't know.
160
One thing I heard you guys say is that one surprise that you guys realized was that enterprises are sometimes adopting these products first before consumers, which feels different from previous era or maybe not what we expected.
161
What can we say there?
162
Yeah, that has been fascinating.
163
And BK and I saw that a lot with 11 Labs, which we were relatively early.
164
I think we did the series A a month or so after the initial launch.
165
And I think what we saw was first the early adopter consumers got on board and they were making memes.
166
They were making fun video and audio.
167
They were cloning their own voices.
168
They were doing game mods.
169
But then I would argue it hasn't even gone in many cases to the true mainstream consumer.
170 it's not yet every single person in America or most have 11 labs on their phone or have a subscription.
171
But the company has these massive enterprise contracts and a ton of huge customers across conversational AI, entertainment, tons of different use cases are using 11.
172
And I think we've seen this across a bunch of AI products, which is there's an initial consumer virality moment.
173
And then that leads to lead generation in enterprise sales in a way that we did not see with the last generation of products.
174 enterprise buyers, there's so much of a mandate to have AI now, an AI strategy and use AI tools that they're watching places Twitter and Reddit and all the AI newsletters.
175
And they're saying, hey, this looks a random consumer meme product, but I can think of a really cool application of that in my business and become the hero for having our AI strategy.
176
I've also heard of similar in the vein, really exciting use cases of AI where you start with consumer virality.
177
So,, from a company side, you get all these Stripe payment data.
178
You look at all the Stripe cells and you basically put it in an AI tool to go try to find where they work.
179
And then when you find out more than X number of people working in that company, you reach out and say, hey, by the way, looks 40 plus people are using our product.
180
What's up?
181
I think the fact that they can do it with one person on an hour was really what really struck me.
182
It was a chief of staff guy who was, yeah, what I do is do this.
183
And it all does it in a couple minutes.
184
And then I send a mass email out and that's Jesus.
185
Okay.
186
That's a go-to-market at extreme speed.
187
Yeah.
188
Justine, you rattled off a list of products and companies in the beginning of this conversation.
189
What I'm curious is, do you think just as examples, are they the MySpace or Friendster?
190
Are we in that era?
191
Or are they the list of companies I rattled off that are still relevant 20 years later?
192, where are we right now?
193, I think our hope always is that every big consumer AI company now that we see and love and use all of the products, which we all do, sticks around.
194
I think unfortunately that's not always going to be the case.
195
I think maybe the interesting differentiation in AI versus the last era of consumer products or even two eras before is the model layer and the capabilities are still improving.
196 we have really not even, I think in many cases, scratched the surface of what these models can do.
197
I think we've seen that in things the VO3 launch, where it's you can suddenly have multiple characters talking.
198
You can have native audio.
199
You can do all of these things.
200 all of these modalities, I don't know, maybe we could argue about this with the text people.
201
The LLMs are more mature, but have the opportunity to just keep improving capabilities as they scale.
202
And I think what we've seen is as long as a company stays at what we say is the technology or the quality frontier.
203
So, as long as they have a state-of-the-art model or are integrating one or something that, they won't become the MySpace or French or whatever.
204, they just keep you fall a little bit behind, you ship the new update, suddenly you're number one again, and you keep moving.
205
The interesting thing now, though, too, is we're starting to see even segmentation in that.
206
So,, in image, for example, there's not just one best image model, there's best image for designers, there's best image for photographers, there's best image for people who can only pay $10 a month versus the people who can pay $50 or $100 a month.
207
And so, I think there can be, just because Ganesh mentioned people are spending so much, there can be multiple winners that persist over time as long as they keep shipping.
208
I absolutely agree.
209, even in video, it's different video, but ad video, and then even in ad video, I saw a post yesterday.
210
I'm, this is best for product shots, and this is what best was people.
211
And it goes on and on.
212
And each of those, I think, is a very large market.
213
Yeah.
214
Say more about how I know we talk a lot about defensibility and moats and how that has changed in this era, how we've changed how we consider that topic.
215
I've gone through a little bit of a come to Jesus moment on that, especially recently.
216
I think moats have always been very important, right?
217
The gold standard, this network effect, being part of the workflow, being a system of record, and these are all very, very important moats.
218
And I will posit that that's still very important.
219
But funny enough, I would say the companies or investments that I've reviewed with this moat-first theory has not really been the winners.
220
And the winners in the category that we look at has always been the ones that break the mold, move really fast, have these incredible model launches, have these incredible product generation speeds.
221
And I've come around that in that we're living in this early era of AI where velocity is the moat.
222
And whether that's in distribution, which is incredibly important and hard to break through noises these days, but also followed with product velocity, that's what wins the game because that's what leads to mind share.
223
And frankly, right now, mind sharing users and traffic that converts to real revenue.
224
That gives you more ability to continue that journey.
225
It's interesting.
226
Ben Thompson, I think a decade ago at this point, had this blog post called Snapchat's Gingerbread Strategy, where he was basically saying, Hey, anything Snap can do, Facebook can do better, but Snap is just going to keep coming up with the next innovation.
227
And if they could just keep doing that, maybe that's their moat.
228
And he called it the gingerbread.
229
It's a good bread.
230
I think you just keep adding candy together.
231
At some point, it'll be such a beautiful gingerbread piece.
232, I think that worked to some extent.
233
Yeah.
234
And famously, I think Evan joked that he's the chief product officer of that.
235
I think distribution and network effect ultimately kicks in, right?
236
And Snap has that too on its own, where it has a corner of Gen Z and the younger users as a core messaging platform.
237
How do we think about network effects for these new products?
238
I think it'll, we're not there yet where I think it's because it's mostly creation efforts right now.
239
There isn't really a closed-linked, closed loop with creation consumption, network effect, social network.
240
So I think we're still a little early before the network effect kicks in, but I think we see that in, we see a different type of moat form in the likes of 11 lab.
241 I said, because it moves so fast, because the product is very good, it gets to go into enterprise and it gets to get locked in into the workflow.
242
So I think that version of moat we're starting to see, I think the true network effect we're still looking out for.
243
I think 11 is an interesting example.
244
I was making an AI-generated video the other day that I needed a voiceover for.
245
And 11 now, because they had a head start, they had the best models, which then more people were using the product, they could make the models better, all of these compounding advantages.
246
They now have a library of people who have uploaded their own voices and their own characters.
247
And so for me, when I was looking across a bunch of voice providers, if I needed a very specific, old wizard mystical voice, 11 had 25 options for that fit what I need, where another platform might have, I don't know, two or three.
248
And so I do think it's early, but we're starting to see signs of that.
249
But they're more traditional network effects that we saw with old marketplaces.
250
They're not necessarily something completely new.
251
I want to go deeper on voice as we talk about new paradigms and form factors.
252
We got excited about voice pretty early on, or we're the first part of that.
253
I saw a thesis around it.
254
Anish, why don't you talk about what got you so excited about voicing this new paradigm and what played out and what hasn't yet?
255
Where do you think it's going?
256, the original observation, and Olivia really is our voice expert, so we should hear from her, but the original observation that got us started was that voice has intermediated human interaction since the beginning of time, and yet it's been not a substrate on which technology has been applied because we just, the tech never worked.
257
And there's all these previous efforts, voice XML and voice apps, and it just simply didn't work.
258
The technology wasn't ready yet.
259
And even then, there were these pockets of Dragon Naturally Speaking and all these products from the 90s.
260
So there was always interest in voice, but it never made sense as a technology substrate.
261
And now, with the generative models, you can just use voice as a primitive.
262
So, it's unexplored, yet so critical to our day-to-day lives.
263
It feels a perfect area where you'll see a lot of AI-native efforts.
264
Yeah.
265
I think we first got excited about voice from more of a consumer perspective, the idea of an always-on coach or therapist or companion in your pocket that you can talk to.
266
And that has started to play out, I would say.
267
There's lots of products where that's working.
268
I think what surprised me at least is as the models got better, real enterprises have picked up voice so quickly to replace human beings on the phone or to augment what human beings are doing on the phone, even in really sensitive and critical categories financial services.
269
Because previously, they were using offshore call centers that also had lots of compliance issues and had 300% annual turnover and were really difficult to manage.
270
And so, I think we're still waiting to see in many ways what the first great, truly net new consumer voice experience will look.
271
There's some early examples.
272
I think people are pulling ChatGPT advanced voice mode into fascinating directions.
273
We've seen products Granola blow up because they allow people to finally, for the first time, do something valuable with all of the things that they're saying all day.
274
But the great thing about consumer is it's completely unpredictable, and the best products emerge out of nowhere, otherwise, they would have been built already.
275
So, I'm excited to see what happens in consumer voice in the next year.
276
For sure.
277, it feels voice is the AI insertion point for the enterprise period.
278
And I think the thing that everybody is missing right now is that the mental model many folks have is that the low-stakes conversations will be AI voice, the customer support, et cetera.
279
But what we've talked about is the most important conversation that happens in a business in a given day, week, year is going to be intermediated by AI because AI will just do a better job with the negotiation or the sales pitch or the persuasion or the friendship.
280
What's going to be the first use case where people are going to be talking to synthetic versions of ourselves, in a consistent, relevant way?
281, why are they going to be talking to AI just or AI and Asia AI me?
282
We've seen a little bit of that.
283
There's companies Delphi that create AI clones of people who have a big knowledge base that they can go and reference and you can get advice or get feedback or things that.
284
And Brian alluded to this earlier.
285
There's this really interesting question of what if you allow not just thought leaders or experts to have this AI clone that you can talk to via text, voice, maybe even video one day, but what if you unlock that for everybody?
286
One of the things we think a lot about in Consumer is there's a lot of people who basically have had some skill or insight or knowledge, whether it's your friend from high school that's insanely funny and you always thought they should have a comedy cooking show, but they just never were able to break through or get it, or your guidance counselor who had incredible advice.
287 how can we enable those people to essentially scale themselves in a way that they never could before having an AI clone or an AI persona?
288
What we've seen thus far is a lot of that has been either thought leaders or experts or on the other total other end of the spectrum, characters that people already know and.
289
We saw early versions of that with character AI, which added a voice mode where there's this pull, especially when you're trying out a new technology, to have some familiarity of I'm talking to this character from my favorite anime series that I already know and love.
290
But I think we'll start filling in everything in the middle that's not just a character, a fictional character, not just a human thought leader, but all of the real people in between.
291, I think people learn in different ways, and AI voice products play really well to that.
292
Masterclass launched an interesting beta where they take people who have already recorded courses on the platform and turn them into voice agents, where then you can ask questions that are really specific to you.
293
And from my understanding, it basically does rag on everything they've said in the course and so returns a fairly customized and accurate result.
294
And that for me is interesting because I'm a fan of them as a company, but I've never had the attention span or the time to sit down and watch a 12-hour masterclass.
295
But I've had some really interesting conversations with the masterclass voice agents where I can talk to them for two or three or five minutes.
296
And so I think that's an example of where we'll see real people turn into AI clones in ways that are useful.
297
Drawing on that, one of the things that we said earlier, which is enterprise are pulling these type of things faster even than customers.
298 we talked to a company that from its inception recorded every single interaction of every single employee.
299
So when the employee's gone, the ghost lives there.
300
And you can still get all the wisdom.
301
Terrifying.
302
Terrifying, but also I'd love to continue to get wisdom and then thoughts from really echoes the idea that everyone's replaceable.
303
And it's interesting by yourself.
304
By your own.
305
We only need you for five hours.
306
I thought that was fascinating.
307
Crazy.
308 everyone's ghost version that lives on Harry Potter.
309
It's also, do you want to talk to a synthetic version of a person that you find interesting?
310
Or is there an entirely synthetic person that doesn't exist in the real world that is a perfect match for your interests?
311
And maybe that's a more interesting question.
312
What does that person look?
313
Because they might even exist in the world, but if you don't meet them, you don't meet them.
314
And now they can be brought to life with this technology.
315
Yeah, it's interesting to think about what are the use cases for which we're going to want to have a human or someone we think is a human doing the activity versus where are we going to be more open to that?
316 I think Olivia's point is with the masterclass thing, there's already this parasocial relationship.
317
So there's value in feeling you're talking to a specific instance of a person versus talking to the abstract most interesting person you may ever meet where you don't need to have that pre-wired.
318
Which may be ChatGPT.
319
Wasn't there a viral tweet that someone recorded in New York subway?
320 this person was fully talking to ChatGPT as if they're a girlfriend.
321
Yeah.
322
Yeah.
323
And there was another one where this parent posted they'd lived through 45 minutes of their son asking questions about Thomas the Tank Engine and they couldn't do it anymore.
324
So they gave him the phone.
325
They put voice mode up and forgot about it and went to do something else and came back two hours later and the kid was still talking to ChatGPT about Thomas the Tank Engine.
326
In that case, the kid has no idea who the character on the other end is.
327
They just know it's a person who wants to go super deep on their interests.
328
Right.
329
And there is no human that can talk about for two hours and 47 minutes straight.
330, if we go to ChatGPT or Claude right now for therapy or coaching, I'd prefer to go to my AI clone therapist or coach and maybe in the future we record our sessions so that they have the data or the therapist or coach has so much content online that we could just recreate them.
331
But yeah, to your point of five, ten years from now, will the top artists be new versions of Lil Michaela, AI generated people, or will they be Taylor Swift and her just army of AI or a duet.
332
Yeah.
333
A little bit of both.
334
And similarly on Twitter, the social characters that we follow, the next Kim Kardashian, is that a real person or is that AI generated?
335
Do you have a hypothesis on that?
336
I've been thinking about this a lot for a couple of years because I think we all followed Lil Michaela closely.
337
Then we followed some of the K-pop bands that I think were the first to start introducing AI hologram-based type characters.
338
I thought you were going to say they were AI generated.
339
I was, that would make sense to me.
340
No, one of them went to military, so they replaced them with an AI.
341
Something that.
342
And then I think we've also really closely followed,, this is tied really closely into photorealistic image and video because we're now seeing people create these influencers who get a ton of attention and followers largely because they now look realistic enough that you don't know if they're AI or not.
343
And there's a lot of debate around that.
344
My take is probably there will be fragmentation into two types of creators or celebrities.
345
One type is a Taylor Swift type where the human experience of it, I think matters in some ways.
346 a lot of people not only love her song, but resonate with the things that have happened to her in her life and her stories and her live performances and all of those things that AI cannot yet replicate.
347
There's another type of celebrity or creator who is more interest-based.
348
What we were talking about with ChatGPT talking about Thomas the Tank Engine.
349
It doesn't matter if that person has lived the real human experience or not.
350
It just matters if they can be interesting talking about or sharing content around a certain topic.
351
And so if I had to guess, it will still have both.
352
Yeah, this gets back to the great AI art debate that always rages on.
353
Yeah.
354
Which is, yes, anyone can generate art now easier than ever before, but it still takes an enormous amount of time to make great AI art.
355
We hosted an event with a bunch of AI artists last summer, and many of these people, when they walked you through their workflow of making an AI movie, it probably takes just as much time as it would have to film that, but maybe they didn't have the skill set, so they'd never be able to do that before.
356
And so I think we've seen, yes, an explosion of influencers that are AI, but still very few of them have risen to the top and become the little Michaelas.
357
There's only been a couple.
358
So I think we're going to see something similar happen where we're going to have pools of AI talent and pools of human talent, and the very best of each is going to rise to the top.
359
And it's going to be a really low conversion rate on both, which is probably how it should be.
360
Or non-human talent.
361, I think what AI unlocks, one of the interesting things we've seen in VO3 is that street interview format, but the person being interviewed is an elf or a wizard or a ghost or these furry blob characters that Gen Z loves talking to.
362 those could all be AI.
363 that thing is very interesting.
364, I think we see this in music too.
365
I think a lot of music, the problem is that the music that the AI generates is it just feels very mid.
366
And definitionally, these things are averaging machines and culture is supposed to be at the edge.
367
So I think it's more of a problem with bad art versus bad artists.
368
And we're conflating those two things and saying it's AI.
369
It's not the AI that's a problem.
370
It's the bad art that's the problem.
371
So if the art was at the same level, you don't think that there's necessarily any that people would just want to hear from humans?
372
Well, potentially.
373
And then I also think this is where we start to get a more philosophical debate, which is if you train a model with all the music up until but just prior to hip-hop, would it infer hip-hop?
374
I don't think so because music is the intersection of past music and culture is critical to it.
375
So you need something that is at the edge and outside of the training data to create new interesting music.
376
And that definitionally doesn't exist in the models.
377
Fascinating.
378
So some of my closest friends who are some of the most talented people I know are working on a gay AI companion app, which the 2015 version of myself, upon hearing that statement, it would have been, what?
379
That's the thing.
380
But one of the things they were saying is that on our list, 11 of the top 50 apps were companion apps.
381
So let's reflect on: are we just at the beginning of that trend?
382
Is there going to be all these different vertical companion apps?
383
What is the future of this?
384
How do we think about that?
385
Everyone's looking at me.
386
Yeah.
387
Yeah, we spent an enormous amount of time in every facet of companionship from the therapy, coaching, friends, all the way to the not safe for work, AI girlfriends.
388 we've looked at basically everything.
389
And interestingly, I think it was probably the first mainstream use case of LLMs.
390
We to joke that literally any chat bot, whether it's your car dealers, customer support or whatever, people try to turn into their therapist or their girlfriend.
391 you talk to these companies and you look at the logs of the chats and it's a ton of people just want someone or something to talk to.
392
And the fact that you can now have a computer be talking back in a way that's immediate, always available and feels human is just a massive unlock for so many people who could never get that before or felt they were just yelling or talking into the void.
393
I would argue we're just at the beginning, especially because the products that have existed were largely very horizontal and came from or were exclusively from the base model providers.
394 people were using ChatGPT for all of these things it wasn't designed for.
395
We've already seen a bunch of cases where an individual company can create a personality for a character and embody it in some digital avatar and prompt it and create a game or a world around it that gets a ton of engagement.
396
Companies Tolen that are doing this for teenagers and college kids.
397
Whereas a totally different company, which I would also call a companion, is allowing you to take a photo every time you eat something.
398
It pulls out and analyzes all of the data, and then it gives you all this information about how you're doing nutrition-wise, and allows you to talk to it and get emotional support.
399
Because for a lot of people, food and eating issues are tied into emotional issues or things they would traditionally go to therapy about.
400
And so, I think what's really exciting to us is the definition of what a companion is has evolved so quickly from either a friend or a girlfriend to anything, any advice or wisdom or entertainment or counsel you could have gotten from a human before.
401
And we're gonna see even more vertical companions moving forward.
402
One thing I thought about is having worked at a social company, there is a very clear trend of average number of friends that you can talk to over time going down.
403
I think the youngest generation is something above one.
404
So, I think the need for companion as a use case will absolutely be there.
405
It'll be an enduring use case, it'll be something critical for a lot of people.
406
So, I think I'm very excited about the companion use case.
407
And as Justine said, I think it branches out into different things, but the need for having a close connection to talk to will endure.
408
And perhaps we talked about how maybe connection is a missing area, white space, but maybe this is filling that in, right?
409, as we say, maybe you just need to feel connected to something, it doesn't need to be human.
410
That average number of one will go down to zero.
411
That's the sad part of it.
412
One AI friend.
413
That's the author.
414
Tell us a story about the senior citizen that they set up with the AI.
415
Oh, I love that story too.
416
Oh, my gosh, yeah.
417
So, this woman set up her dad.
418
He was having some memory issues.
419
Her mom had passed away.
420
Her dad, I think, went into a care home.
421
And she posted on Reddit, and this was when AI companion didn't exist as a term.
422
So, she posted on some subreddit.
423
I think it was a not safe for work AI one, being, I don't really want something not safe for work, but I want an AI girlfriend or an AI friend to talk to my dad and keep him company all day because I can't spend hours on the phone with him all day, every day.
424
And then when she reviewed what he was doing and what he wanted to talk about, he wanted to mostly talk about World War II stories and random and occasionally feel someone was flirting with him and found him interesting.
425
And that thing.
426
It's ChatGPT is not great at just the way it speaks, the voices.
427 OpenAI does not want to build the AI girlfriend for seniors who mostly want to talk about World War II.
428
But that might end up being a massive market.
429
In a flirty way.
430
In a flirty way.
431
It's interesting.
432
I tend to look at Korea sometimes or Japan as an indication of what the societal changes can be.
433
And there's a bunch of elderly there.
434
Yeah.
435
And the ratio is completely off.
436
So that need for beings that need to talk to the elderly people and keep them company about World War II and so on.
437
And so for us, I think that's a really interesting use case, too.
438
It's phenomenal.
439
I'm imagining just you trying all these companions or getting immersed in it and Olivia being, what are you doing?
440
And just me being, it's for work.
441
What has been your impression of all of it?
442
I think it's been really fascinating, the companion thing, because there is a huge category of people who've been willing to type into a text box and treat it as a friend.
443
And then there's probably a much bigger category of people who don't want to think of themselves that way.
444
And so I think that we have yet to unlock the next modality of companions where maybe it's a voice in your ear or maybe it's sitting on your computer screen where it's not obvious that you're turning to it for friendship, but it provides the same emotional value.
445
And I think that is what is just now emerging in companions as the models become more multimodal, essentially.
446
They're always on companions.
447
Yeah.
448
And that's what's really exciting.
449
You could use an AI assistant, but not an AI friend.
450
Yes, exactly.
451
Even if the assistant is a friend that's also an agent that can send emails for you.
452
So a lot of people upon hearing this conversation of companions just think, oh man, people are going to have less friends.
453
People aren't going to date anymore.
454
And depression is going to go up.
455
Suicide's going to go up.
456
Fertility is going to continue to go down.
457
Market Jason once had his famous quote of, I'm not saying you're going to be happy, but you're going to be unhappy in new and exciting ways.
458
Are you, yep, that is what it is.
459
That's technology.
460
Or are you, no?
461
I don't think so.
462
This reminds me of my favorite post of all time on the character AI subreddit, which I've spent an immense amount of time on, which is, okay, and to set the scene.
463
So there's all of these high school or college kids who had their formative years during COVID and they weren't really in person with other kids or teenagers or learning how to talk to people.
464
And I think it really ended up impacting a lot of them.
465
And one of those kids, I think he's in college now, had been posting on the Character AI subreddit about his AI girlfriend for a while.
466
And then one day he posted that he found a 3D GF, so a real-life girlfriend, and that he wouldn't be returning to the subreddit for a while.
467
And he credited character for teaching him how to talk to other people, especially teaching him how to talk to girls, how to flirt, how to ask people questions, how to engage with them about their interests.
468
And I think that,, in some ways, that's the peak value of AI is enabling better human connection.
469
Just less weird.
470
Yeah.
471
Were people happy for him or did they call him a traitor?
472
People were extremely happy.
473, there were a few, I think, jealous souls in there who had not found their 3D GF yet, but I have hope for them.
474
I think that's real, though, because we've even seen studies, I think, of the Replica product where actual studies were showing depression and anxiety and suicidal ideation were going down in users.
475
I do think there's this trend of a lot of people don't feel understood and don't feel safe.
476
And so then it's hard for them to be in the real world doing real things.
477
And so if AI can help them, and maybe they don't have the money or the time to go to therapy and make all of these changes in their lives.
478
And so if AI can do that for them, they can emerge a transformed person that's then more able to do things in the 3D world as that.
479
Yeah.
480
The thing that really got me aware of how big these companion apps are were when we did the first interview with the founder of Replica was amazing after she turned off the FW stuff and the subreddit for Replica and the comments in our video were basically a lot of people being, hey, this is my wife when we stopped having sex.
481, I already have this to neutered up.
482
And so many people were just, my life is open.
483
And I'm, oh my God, I didn't realize how big of a role this app was playing in people's lives.
484
I feel that is bringing out an activity that people have done for a long time.
485 people have had these internet chat room Discord relationships the use the Zoomers have Discord girlfriends and boyfriends.
486
In our day, there was this anonymous postcard website where you would go and send anonymous postcards back and forth and develop these really deep relationships with people you would never meet or you didn't know if they were the person they were pretending to be.
487
And I think AI just makes that deeper, more engaging experience.
488
Well so this is where I think an important point though is that the AI not be too agreeable because people in real life,, there's a give and a take to human relationship, and highly agreeable AI does not set you up well for that.
489
So I think there's a fine balance between being just agreeable enough to help you engage and get better at this versus being so agreeable that you're worse at this.
490
And that's also important on the therapist's use case.
491
Yeah.
492
Therapists can't just say you're absolutely right on everything.
493
Totally.
494
Can say,, let's review your behavior.
495
That weekend when 40 was telling everyone that they were the king of the world, it turns out everyone hated it because you don't believe it when it just tells you that you're amazing all the time.
496
When it comes to therapist use case, they're the actual real world where the disagreeableness matters a lot.
497
I want to close with what's possible going forward.
498
Let's speculate on new platforms or form factors that could be game-changing.
499
OpenAI just acquired Johnny Ives company.
500, Brian, I've heard you talk a bit about glasses and why we're still excited about that form factor.
501
Maybe we can start there, but I want to hear from the group on what they could imagine as something that's additive or even disrupting some of the mobile use cases.
502
It's funny, just thinking about glasses and all that, but there are seven billion of mobile phones out there.
503
There aren't that many devices at all that gets to that level.
504
So my thought process is either it will live in mobile.
505
And for that, there's many different ways to think about the future where there's a privacy wall around it or is a local LLM or local model that helps you really contain all the things that you want to contain in your device level.
506
So I think I'm still very much excited about the model development layer to get to that.
507
And I think that's what I'm most excited about.
508
And then if you think about always on, as Olivia, you said, mobile we have always on, but there are other things we also have always on.
509
And what does that look when there are net new devices or what have you, or appendages, if you will, that attach to things that you always have that can enable that?
510
Any speculation from you guys?
511
Is there a piece of hardware or something that we're going to be wearing or carrying around or using that's either attached to the phone or separate from the phone that could enable these?
512
I think AI has scaled for consumers tremendously well, given it's mostly been text boxing, some output in a web browser out.
513
And so I love the idea of AI being with you and seeing what you see.
514
It's funny, now when I go to tech parties, a lot of the under-20s are wearing pins that record what they're saying and doing and they find real value from them.
515
That's one example.
516
We've seen a new wave of products that can see what's happening on your screen and take action for you, help you coach you, other things that that I also find really, really exciting.
517
And I think as also the agentic models get even better, it goes beyond just suggestions to doing work for you, sending emails for you, which is very exciting for me, I think.
518
I think, yeah, the human insight layer of that is big too.
519 often we have no way of measuring ourselves compared to other people or where we exist in the world.
520
So if an AI can hear all of your conversations and see everything you're doing online and say, hey, look, if you spent five more hours a week doing this, you would be a world expert in this topic.
521
And based on this vast network of other people I'm serving, you should connect with these three other people.
522
And this person could be an amazing co-founder.
523
You should date this person, that thing.
524
That to me is the ultimate sci-fi vision of that.
525
Which comes from AI being with you all the time and something that's not just a chat GPT text box.
526
Totally.
527
The device that has been most widely adopted post-phone is the AirPods.
528
So that feels the thing that's hiding in plain sight.
529
And there's a whole bunch of social protocol questions around it because it's weird to have your AirPods in at dinner.
530
No one does that.
531
Right.
532
But there may be a way that you can integrate AI and also fit the current social protocols around AirPods.
533
It would be interesting.
534
Yeah.
535
You said something that we glossed over, but young people at parties are recording their conversation.
536
Yes.
537
In the future, is everything going to be recorded?
538
You think that generation is already growing up with that norm to some degree?
539
Yeah.
540
I think there'll be new social norms developed around this behavior because I think it's real and it's valuable.
541
And so it's scary, I think, for a lot of people that this is happening.
542
But I think it's a wave that started and it's not going to stop.
543
And I think the context matters too.
544 I think a lot of what you're talking about is the SF networking parties where work and personal stuff really blurs.
545
We talked about this.
546
And you can do that on SF.
547
If you do that, did that party on PowerPoint in New York?
548
Cancel.
549
Yeah.
550
But I think that's why there'll be a new set of cultural norms.
551 when the cell phone was introduced, there's places where it's rude to take a loud call.
552 the same set of things will emerge around these recording devices.
553
Yeah.
554
Let's end on this idea that we're very early.
555
Guys, this has been a great conversation.
556
Thanks so much for coming on.
557
Thanks, everybody.
558
Thank you for having us.
559
Thanks for listening to the A16Z podcast.
560
If you enjoyed the episode, let us know by leaving a review at rate thispodcast.com slash A16Z.
561
We've got more great conversations coming your way.
562
See you next time.