--- METADATA START ---
Show: The Generalist
Episode: The Semiconductor Century with…
Host: Mario
GUESTS: Chris Miller 
Guests: Chris Miller
Source URL: https://podcasts.apple.com/us/podcast/the-semiconductor-century-with-chris-miller-author/id1805868710?i=1000710093573
--- METADATA END ---

1
In the future, China is going to try to use every possible way to break through the barriers that the U.S.
2
has set up.
3
And so my guess would be that in five years, China is still behind TSMC, but there is uncertainty there.
4
And if China were to catch up with TSMC, it would have some really profound implications.
5
To catch up to U.S.
6
capabilities and TSMC's capabilities, is your expectation that China has to essentially create an alternative to ASML, like EUV machine?
7
Is it that they somehow managed to get one into the country in some way, shape, or form?
8
There's no way that smuggling is going to solve the problem.
9
These machines are far too big to smuggle.
10
There aren't any sitting around unused in the world.
11
And so the question is, can China either A, replicate everything ASML has done or B, find an alternative way of producing very small transistors on its chips?
12
Hey, I'm Mario, and this is the Generalist Podcast.
13
You've probably heard the saying, the future is already here.
14
It's just not evenly distributed yet.
15
This podcast is my attempt to map the future by interviewing the people creating it, driven founders, prescient investors, and brilliant thinkers.
16
I hope my conversations with them help you identify significant changes before they go mainstream, make sense of complex developments, and find ways to participate in the upside.
17
Today, I'm speaking with Chris Miller, the historian who wrote one of the most important geopolitical books of the past few years, Chip War.
18
It also happens to be one of my favorites.
19
Chris is a professor at the Fletcher School at Tufts University who has spent nearly a decade showing us how semiconductors, the tiny chips powering our lives, have become the strategic center of gravity for global power, economics, and innovation.
20
In our conversation, we discuss the China-U.S.
21
semiconductor race, where Beijing is achieving self-sufficiency, and where it still lacks, what most people got wrong about DeepSeek, but why it still matters, Huawei's surprising transformation from a telecom giant into a potential AI powerhouse, and why India and Southeast Asia might be critical players in the geopolitical chess match of chip manufacturing.
22
Speaking with Chris reframed how I think the next decade may play out as it relates to computing and great power conflict.
23
And I hope it proves similarly valuable for you.
24
This is a new podcast.
25
So if you like it, I hope you'll consider subscribing and joining us for some of the incredible episodes we have coming up.
26
Now, here's my conversation with Chris Miller.
27
This episode of the Generalist Podcast is brought to you by our very own Generalist Plus, the premium newsletter that's redefining how investors and builders navigate the technological frontier.
28
Generalist Plus delivers a mini NBA tiering box at just a teeny fraction of the cost, just $22 a month or $220 annually.
29
So, what's included?
30
One, tactical interviews where elite founders and investors reveal their actual strategies and decision frameworks.
31
Two, comprehensive guides that distill hundreds of hours of research into actionable insights on investing and company building.
32
Three, an exclusive database of emerging startups poised for significant growth.
33
And finally, complete access to our archive of meticulously crafted case studies.
34
All of this comes wrapped in the distinctive storytelling and incisive analysis that readers have come to expect from the generalist.
35
We've designed Generalist Plus to leverage the world.
36
So join a community of strategic thinkers who are gaining an edge in understanding markets, technology, and business fundamentals by visiting thegeneralist.substack.com.
37
That's thegeneralist.substack.com.
38
Chris, thank you so much for being with us today.
39
Thank you for the invitation.
40
I think many of our listeners will have read Chipwar already, or at least I certainly hope so.
41
But for those who haven't, perhaps you could give a brief distillation of what I think is perhaps my favorite modern history book.
42
Well, first off, thank you for that.
43
I decided to write Chipwar now almost a decade ago when I came to realize that you really couldn't understand how the world worked without semiconductors, whether it was the shape of the global economy and the supply chains that crisscrossed the Pacific Ocean with the balance of military power and the use of capabilities like computing and guidance to transform how militaries fight or the future of artificial intelligence.
44
All those would already have been and will in the future be defined by access to computing power.
45
So that's why I wrote Chipwar to argue that even if you weren't in computing or in semiconductors or in software engineering or anything related to computing, you, in fact, were living in a world that was profoundly shaped by many, many billions of chips.
46
One of the things that I love about that book is you really captured so many of the human stories behind it.
47
It is a world awash in many rich characters, and we're seeing sort of new chapters of that story play out today.
48
When you started it, you know, working on it 10 years ago, did you have any idea that it could be quite so important to understand this world?
49
It feels like the last four or five years in particular have made this essential reading essential to understand.
50
You know, I think I had a dim understanding of the direction of travel of some key trends of the proliferation of chips throughout supply chains, of the growing importance of large volumes of computing and artificial intelligence.
51
But I certainly wouldn't have predicted the way all of these trends converged just over the last couple of years to put chips at the center of public discussion and of financial markets of how we think about the future of technology.
52
So it's been an exciting couple years to watch all that play out just so rapidly.
53
Amazing.
54
Well, let's talk about the future.
55
I was having a conversation with an investor the other day, an investor who's very involved politically also and is charting the changes in administration, has a broad macro view, and his take was that 2025 is really the mark of a new era in history.
56
As a historian, I'm curious what you think of that.
57
Are we in a new era?
58
And how does that impact the chip war?
59
Well, I think one of the things historians love to do is to define new eras.
60
And you can find historians who will describe almost any given year as the start of a new era, at least from a certain perspective.
61
I think when it comes to politics, I think it's easy to always overestimate the novelty of the moment that you're in.
62
And so I would just have an intrinsic skepticism that in a political sense we're in a fundamentally new era, although certainly a lot will change with the new administration.
63
I think there's more of an argument to be made that we're on the cusp of a new era when it comes to economics and technology, depending on your projections for just how impactful AI will or won't be, both in a broader macroeconomic sense as well as in a technological sense.
64
It will clearly be impactful, but will it be a continuation of a trend of applying computing to more and more segments of human life?
65
Or will it be a major step change upwards that creates really significant, short-run, acute social, economic, political dislocations to the positive and the negative direction?
66
I think it's still unclear, to be honest, but I could certainly see an argument that we're at the cusp of a new era driven not by the politics, but more by the technological change and its economic implications.
67
What are the sort of signals you're keeping an eye out to decide which of those two paths we look set to head onto?
68
You know, I think one of the takeaways that I've drawn from my historical research is that far too often people over-index on technological change as a proxy for the impact of technology on a society.
69
And instead, what you want to index on is the diffusion of technology, because ultimately, that's how technology has these broad social, political, economic impacts.
70
And so when I look at artificial intelligence today, for example, you can try to assess how our model is improving on benchmarks or try to find ways of measuring quality today relative to several years ago.
71
And I bet those are the wrong metrics to be looking at.
72
And instead, I think the question is: how rapidly are new capabilities being diffused and adopted?
73
Because ultimately, that's what gives you the social and the economic impact.
74
I think the challenge is: what are the specific numbers you would be counting to measure diffusion?
75
That's a hard question to actually answer.
76
You can look at the number of subscribers of ChatGPT, but that's probably a very, very loose proxy for what you're actually trying to get at.
77
But it does seem to me that a question of diffusion and of adoption is far more important than measures of capability per se.
78
Yeah, ChatGPT subscribers, clawed users, interesting proxies, more even just taking a look at the extent to which big businesses seem to be happily adopting all manner of different products.
79
It feels like there is an insane pull from these large institutions to figure out how to trim a customer support team from 1,000 people to 10 or integrate it into different parts of their product.
80
Are those some of the other pieces of this that you look at to sort of gauge diffusion?
81
Yeah, I think that's right.
82
And the intuition there being that there will certainly be consumer products leveraging AI already are, but perhaps it's the case that the primary impact, at least in the short run, will be in the enterprise.
83
And I think that's an intuition that makes sense to anyone who's in the business of selling software, where the enterprise market has been a very attractive market for a long time, but actually isn't how we publicly talk about the impact of tech diffusion.
84
And that, I think, speaks to a different set of capabilities that companies are looking for versus what individuals are looking for.
85
And I think even within the enterprise, it's difficult exactly to know what.
86
But I certainly do find myself thinking very hard about what are those metrics, what are the anecdotes in the business segment that I think are the most impactful, and index on those rather than the consumer dynamics to think about how rapidly is diffusion happening or not happening.
87
On a personal level, I'm curious how much you find AI has diffused your time.
88
Like you are an information-consuming machine and a synthesizing machine.
89
On our last time we chatted, you were talking to me about how you love to go down these rabbit holes of Japanese company histories that haven't been written and so on and so forth.
90
Versus Chris Miller five years ago, where has it sort of seeped into your day-to-day most?
91
I do find myself using ChatGPT in particular as a complement to Google search.
92
On any sort of anything above the simplest of questions, I usually ask Google and ask ChatGPT and see how the results are similar or different.
93
I recognize that's a very first-order use case, but that's where I've found the easiest integration into my own workflows.
94
And then I think I'm eagerly awaiting new products that seamlessly integrate for me more agentic capabilities.
95
For example, they haven't really arrived yet.
96
I think we're still in waiting mode.
97
I can imagine many ways that I will be an eager user, but I think the productization actually matters a lot there.
98
And so right now, I'm primarily a user of AI systems to just give me a different cut of information than Google would give me.
99
Talking about tech diffusion feels like a natural segue into DeepSeek.
100
For those who maybe didn't follow this story, perhaps you could give us a sort of brief pre-see.
101
And more importantly, I'd be curious for your take on how significant the announcements that came out earlier this year really are.
102
You know, I think DeepSeek is certainly significant.
103
It's an AI lab in China spun out of a quantitative hedge fund, which, until about six or eight months ago, was really not anywhere close to the center of anyone's mental map of AI in China or even globally.
104
But over the last six months, has been releasing a series of pretty impressive models.
105
And then in January of this year, it rocketed to the top of global public attention, thanks to the release of its latest reasoning model, causing in one day a 17% decline in NVIDIA stock price and many other implications downstream of that.
106
I think DeepSeek is certainly meaningful in two ways.
107
One, it shows, not that this is always a surprise, but I think it's a useful reminder to many people that China's got extraordinary AI talent.
108
And two, that when it comes to algorithmic design, the moats around algorithmic design are not very deep, if they exist at all.
109
And this is because, A, if you've found out what your competitor's algorithm looks like, you can copy it straightforwardly.
110
And B, the research that's involved in finding the next improvement to the algorithm is itself not very heavily defended by unique moats.
111
Most of this research is still published on the internet, not all, but most.
112
And there are many different avenues for improving AI systems.
113
And so, as a result, anyone who is hoping that their unique algorithm or their ability to develop ever better algorithms would be a strong competitive mode against potential rivals, I think, was proven wrong by many things, but including by DeepSeek.
114
I think there was an alternative narrative, though, that DeepSeek had managed to train a cutting-edge AI model with a tiny fraction of the computing power, the chips that a company like OpenAI or Anthropic had.
115
I think that's basically not true from what we've learned: is that actually they had access to a fair amount of compute.
116
They defined the amount of compute they used in the most narrow way possible to exclude all the other RD they did.
117
And so, I think the takeaway that led everyone to sell their NVIDIA stock was probably wrong, but the takeaway that actually there aren't good barriers around algorithms and that one should expect rapid diffusion of algorithmic efficiency improvements, that I think is the right takeaway.
118
So many threads I want to follow there.
119
On the sort of overreaction to this five, six million number that was going around saying, you know, DeepSeek achieved this with this tiny amount of money.
120
Do you think that was intentional in any way to lead with that number?
121
You know, there was certainly some chatter around, you know, is this Chinese psyops?
122
Is this some kind of gameplay in the works?
123
Like, how do you make sense of that having studied so much of China's work in the semiconductor realm?
124
You know, I certainly noticed the fact that the DeepSeq model that generated so much attention was released the week of President Trump's inauguration, as well as the week of the Stargate announcement.
125
Was that a coincidence?
126
I don't know.
127
The alternative explanation is that it was released right before the Chinese New Year when everyone went on holiday, which also seems like a plausible explanation.
128
So I'm in waiting mode for more evidence before I have a strong view on that issue.
129
I think DeepSeek is interesting in the Chinese context because until pretty recently, from all the public information we have, when the Chinese government thought about its leading AI players, DeepSeek was not on the list.
130
And it's only in 2025 that DeepSeek leadership has started getting meetings with senior Chinese officials.
131
And now it's had a couple already.
132
And so I think it's the case.
133
And again, if we have alternative evidence, I'm willing to adjust my hypothesis.
134
But from what we know right now, the Chinese government wasn't really thinking about DeepSeek much until at the earliest, late last year, and possibly even early 2025, which again would make me think that there I think the base case assumption is that there wasn't a whole lot of coordination, even though I'm open to the possibility that there was if we see new evidence.
135
When you talk about the sort of major players within the Chinese AI community historically, who would have been on that map, who are you sort of thinking of?
136
You know, I know that in the book you certainly talk about the efforts of SMIC, and you'll have to remind me of the name of the sort of memory player in the space.
137
But yeah, curious what that landscape has traditionally looked like.
138
I think there are the chip players, SMIC, the producer of high-bandwidth memory in China, CXMT.
139
But in addition to the chip players, there are also the big tech companies.
140
So Alibaba, Tencent, Baidu.
141
There's ByteDance, which isn't a publicly traded company, so we know less about their spending in this sphere, but by all accounts, they spend a lot of money, maybe even more than the others, on AI infrastructure, building data centers.
142
Then there's Huawei, which a couple of years ago would never have described itself as an AI company, but now is really rebranded and both publicly describes itself, and I think is right to be described, as aspiring to be a full-stack AI company from the hardware all the way up.
143
And those were the big players.
144
Those were the companies that were profiled in the Chinese media.
145
Those are the companies whose CEOs were meeting with Chinese leaders.
146
And DeepSeek was really not on that list until the last couple of months.
147
You know, you talk a lot about Huawei in the book and what a sort of phenomenal story it is.
148
I haven't really tracked that transformation.
149
Is that a transformation that feels credible to you that they can play as this sort of full-stack player?
150
I think it's at least partially credible.
151
Certainly at the chip level, they've got the most advanced chip design capabilities in all of China and capabilities that are globally competitive.
152
Maybe not at the top, but globally competitive.
153
They've been building out their chip manufacturing supply chain very rapidly over the last couple of years with a handful of different partner firms across China.
154
They realize that one of NVIDIA's key assets is CUDA.
155
And so they've been putting a lot of money into building out all of the software ecosystem around their own GPUs.
156
It's not nearly as good from all the information we have, but nevertheless, they're making a real effort.
157
I think as you get further up the stack towards more consumer-level applications in particular, but also enterprise software, Huawei is a much smaller player.
158
But I also think those are parts of the stack where if you dominate the bottom and you've already got some good distribution channels on your phones, for example, I think it's not necessarily that hard to make yourself a significant player in the provision of simple AI models for smartphones if you already dominate the smartphone market in China.
159
And so I wouldn't bet against them in terms of their core technological capabilities in general.
160
And I certainly wouldn't bet against them in terms of their Chinese market share, where they've got a very strong competitive position.
161
I think the question is: can they export in AI-adjacent products?
162
Can they export GPUs?
163
Can they export other AI products in the way they succeeded in exporting lower-level sophistication electronics like telecoms systems, like smartphones?
164
And that's where right now we haven't seen any evidence, but I'll be watching closely the next couple of years.
165
We started our discussion about DeepSeek, talking about tech diffusion.
166
I was reading recently, I think it was in Marginal Revolution, Tyler Cowan talking about DeepSeek's real impact will be in Nigeria, in large African markets that have maybe been cost-constrained in accessing the more expensive models.
167
Is that sort of a view that you would go along with?
168
Does that make sense to you that there is this opportunity for DeepSeek and other lower-cost models to win some of those emerging market use cases?
169
I'm not sure that I would have that as my base case.
170
I think it's true that DeepSeek offers.
171
It's also true that since 2023, we've seen an absolute collapse in model prices, first for GPT-3 quality models, then for GPT-4 quality models, now in reasoning models.
172
And so, does DeepSeek have low prices?
173
Yes.
174
Is that part of a broader trend that many companies have participated in?
175
Yes.
176
And so, will DeepSeek have the lowest prices in 2026 or 2027?
177
That's far from clear to me.
178
And I think I would have the view that unless we have a rapid deceleration in progress, that even if you're in the Nigerian market, you're not a pretty capable model.
179
And given how cheap models have gotten, are you going to tolerate a two-year-old model if it's a tiny bit cheaper, or are you going to want something pretty close to the cutting edge?
180
I think the capabilities race is still on.
181
And so, unless DeepSeek constantly offers lower prices and at the same time retains cutting-edge capabilities, which is very hard to do, unless it does that, I'm not sure it's got a guaranteed pathway to dominating the Nigerian market, for example.
182
We're talking about being in this race and how these leads can evaporate so quickly on the algorithmic side.
183
How has that changed how you think about how valuable some of these model businesses are?
184
How you think about AI business models writ large?
185
Have you been sort of going down that idea maze a little bit?
186
Well, I think if you look at the history of software in general, I think you have to conclude that although it's very difficult to measure software quality in any sort of durable manner, the key to success in selling software is not really software quality.
187
It is part of the, it's one of the companies that have durable businesses have durability not because they've got a quality advantage generally, but because they have a distribution advantage or they've got network effects that work to their advantage.
188
I think if you ask yourself, does everyone use Google versus Bing because Google searches dramatically better?
189
I anecdotally have a sense that Google's better than Bing.
190
Could I quantify that for you?
191
No.
192
And do I think Google is better enough to justify my using it 99% of the time over Bing?
193
No, I don't think so.
194
And so I think when you start looking at the history of software, you find that actually distribution matters hugely, network effects matter hugely.
195
And so when I think about AI business models, the question I would ask is not who's got the best model this year or who will have it next year, but who's got consumer attention, who's got enterprise attention, who's got the ability to keep that attention over the long run.
196
And there, I think, asking yourself, what are the best metrics for assessing which model company, for example, will best win in the enterprise?
197
Performance on this or that benchmark is probably not going to be the primary variable.
198
You don't want to be far, far behind in performance.
199
But I think questions of quality will matter a lot.
200
Your ability to not hallucinate, especially not hallucinate in the wrong ways, costly ways.
201
Your ability to manage customer relationships will matter a lot.
202
Your ability to bundle certain offerings together in a way that makes it easier for enterprises to buy, that'll matter a lot.
203
And all those are things that are not at all measured by benchmarks.
204
And so I find myself asking questions about that a lot more than I do about who's going to be had.
205
Will it be Grok3 or OpenAI in six months' time?
206
I mean, from that perspective, it feels like very much OpenAI is to lose, given the extent of the brand value they've already accumulated.
207
One other sort of way I could see it playing out that I'd be curious for your take is: it does feel like Anthropic has done a really good job sort of appealing more and more to an enterprise client base.
208
You know, there's some interesting ways that I think they've tailored their product that feel like they can really have a foothold there.
209
You know, among the large U.S.
210
players, particularly, do you start to see where one moves and the other sort of fills in a gap or takes over a bit of territory that's left undefended?
211
Yeah, I think I would agree with you that ChatGPT certainly has the vast majority of consumer mind share and also agree that Anthropic, I would say, punches above its weight in enterprise.
212
I think that the big question to me is: as we start seeing more applications built on top of models, A, what models are those built on top of in the long run?
213
B, how switchable are they?
214
And C, what's the business model of that over time?
215
You know, I think most people, probably myself included, had you asked me 15 years ago, would be really surprised at how good of a business cloud computing is.
216
I probably would have said, well, it doesn't sound that hard.
217
It sounds super capital intensive.
218
Margins surely can't be 50% permanently far into the future, yet it has been.
219
And so I think one of the key questions is: will you have models that are able to deliver that type of margin profile with others built on top of them?
220
And right now, that's a real open question.
221
And I certainly see a lot of data points of companies.
222
Do you think meaningful value will be created at the application layer, too?
223
You know, you talked about the importance of this productization.
224
I think within VC, I'm sure you've tracked this conversation, but we've really gone through various whiplashes around it where the values in the infrastructure, the values in the model layer, the values, software is dead, apps are dead, wrappers are dead.
225
Now wrappers are back.
226
Yeah, how have you sort of, how do you see that at the moment?
227
You know, I think if you believe that moats in software are less about capability per se and more about the ability to market capability, to productize, to have the right distribution channels, I think that suggests that actually applications have a real future because you can tailor to different end customers.
228
And so I think I've always been on the side of, I suspect there will be durable business models for at least a couple of the model providers, but not having to pay for the infrastructure and just sitting on top of it seems like a pretty attractive place to be.
229
We've talked a little bit about some of obviously the work being done in China and the U.S.
230
I'm curious for your take on sort of the movement around sovereign models.
231
There's been a little bit of conversation around the idea that these are sort of a new type of strategic asset and that every major superpower or superpower to be will need to control some model of their own almost.
232
And so you have Sarbum in India, you have Sakana in Japan, you have Mistral in Europe.
233
Is that a view of the world that makes sense to you?
234
Do you think that's how this potentially plays out?
235
The question to me is what problem you're trying to solve with Sovereign AI Act, what that problem actually is.
236
I think there's a fair number of cases of sovereign AI where the problem to be solved is politician A hears AI is important, wants AI in his country, doesn't know what that means, and so builds sovereign AI.
237
I think there's a fair amount of that happening.
238
Is that a bad idea, though?
239
Well, I think that seems like it might be a really good strategy as a president of a country.
240
Well, good strategy for photo ops or for long-run capability through Texas Act.
241
I think if can a medium-sized country really compete against U.S.
242
tech giants in the long run?
243
I doubt it.
244
I doubt it.
245
Just looking at the scale of infrastructure that's being built right now, looking at the expertise that's required, it doesn't seem to me plausible that you're going to have a medium-sized European country or a medium-sized Southeast Asian country spending many billions of dollars a year replicating capabilities or probably actually replicating slightly worse capabilities than you can buy for almost free from Silicon Valley.
246
Now, do you gain some sort of sovereignty from that?
247
Well, you know, what does that mean exactly?
248
Can you get the model to spit out what you'd like it to spit out?
249
Yes.
250
How much are you willing to pay to have a model that spits out what you want it to spit out versus regulating access to ChatGPT or other models in your country, which countries already know how to do?
251
So my sense is that if you're worried about what models say, it's much easier and much cheaper just to regulate access to them in your country.
252
And if you're asking yourself, is there an economic case, not a political case, but an economic case for having your own model, I would say probably not if there's a fair number of roughly comparable and capability models that you can already access and don't have to pay the startup costs for.
253
So I am a bit of a skeptic of sovereign AI.
254
Could I be dissuaded in certain quite specific use cases?
255
I think I could be.
256
But right now, I don't know that I've seen a great example of a sovereign AI project that looks smarter than imposing whatever national regulation you'd like to impose on U.S.
257
model companies when they offer products in your country.
258
More productive would be investing in, you know, perhaps institutes that teach people to bring on board these skills, coax some of these large companies to open offices there.
259
That's sort of the path that feels more useful.
260
I think if you look at economic value, that is by far the path that looks the most useful.
261
And then it's just a question of how much are you willing to pay for addressing your political concerns and what's the right way to address your political concerns.
262
And it just doesn't seem to me that in anything but the most extreme cases, and China's probably the extreme case, it would be worth the cost to try to replicate less effectively what Silicon Valley is already doing.
263
This episode is brought to you by Exploit, the best way to share data, dashboards, and reports with your customers.
264
Are your customers asking for more data and reporting?
265
Are you tired of manually pulling data or having your engineer?
266
You've probably gotten these requests, but they drag down your team with work that isn't the core focus of your business.
267
Enter Explo, an all-in-one platform for sharing data and analytics with your customers.
268
Getting started is easy.
269
With Explo's low-code functionality, you can build dashboards, emails, or set up data exports for your customers.
270
Once you're ready, simply add dashboards into your SaaS application or start sending data directly in the Explo platform.
271
The best part, your users can use Explo's AI features to create their own reports and dashboards, eliminating data requests for your support team.
272
Simplify the way you share data and analytics.
273
Try it free at explo.co/slash Mario.
274
That's explo.co slash Mario.
275
We've talked a lot about the technological differences between the U.S.
276
and Chinese ecosystems, but a little bit less about the political undercurrents.
277
Perhaps you could tell us how you see the Trump administration's role in this technological battle and sort of the new territory, the new struggle of the CHIP war.
278
I think there are a fair number of points of continuity between both the Biden and Trump administration and also the Biden administration and the first Trump administration.
279
Point one would be the focus on having more diversified semiconductor manufacturing supply chains.
280
TSMC recently said that they produced 99% of the world's GPUs, all of which were produced in Taiwan, which is an extraordinary figure, an extraordinary level of concentration.
281
I think actually you'd struggle in history to find another moment in which the key ingredient to technological progress was produced only in the U.S.
282
political system about the desire for more diversification, including having some production in the U.S.
283
or at least somewhere outside of East Asia.
284
So that's one.
285
I think, second, the basic belief that the U.S.
286
will be better off if it leads in AI.
287
Trump has called this AI dominance.
288
The Biden administration didn't have the same phrase, but they had the same concept behind what they were trying to pursue in terms of cutting China off from accessing high-end ships and making sure it was only U.S.
289
and allied firms that had them.
290
I think there's a key difference around what the Biden team called AI safety, and which I think the Trump team looks at as efforts to slow down AI or to make it politically biased.
291
And so that will, I think, be a major shift between Biden and Trump.
292
But I think it was notable the representation of big tech CEOs at Trump's inauguration, the extent to which Silicon Valley and Washington see themselves as not aligned on everything, but I think there's a fair amount of alignment, at least on the AI race and how important it is to win it.
293
And that's something that would have been expressed in different language by Biden and Democrats.
294
But I think the core dynamic of there being a race and it being an important race is something that will be broadly shared.
295
You talked about the U.S.'s need to find new places outside of Taiwan to create these GPUs, and there have been some large initiatives, I think, in Arizona and elsewhere to try and onshore some of that.
296
And you also mentioned, you know, maybe outside the states and outside of Taiwan.
297
How significant have some of those moves been?
298
So I think there's some good news and some bad news on this front.
299
The good news is that TSMC, the Taiwan Cementer Manufacturing Company, currently has up and running in Arizona a plant that is one generation behind the cutting edge and will, I think, be upgraded in the future to be closer to the cutting edge and will be supplemented by two more plants before the end of the decade.
300
So that is not going to make the U.S.
301
anywhere close to independent in chip making, but it is a big change from the past when TSMC had basically no sizable presence outside of Taiwan or China.
302
So that's a positive change, and I think it does provide a base that can grow.
303
I think the negative change is that the leading U.S.
304
chip maker, Intel, finds itself in an even more difficult position today than it was in a couple of years ago.
305
And Intel is in the midst of a CEO search as we speak.
306
There's widespread public discussion in the media of different ways the company might be split to make it more efficient.
307
There's huge uncertainty that hangs over Intel.
308
And I think one of the challenges not just the company, but all of Silicon Valley and also the Trump administration face are going to be what happens with Intel.
309
Because right now, the market for manufacturing advanced chips is just three companies.
310
And one of those companies, TSMC, is by far the dominant player.
311
Both Intel and Samsung, the third company, have really, really struggled in their chip making businesses the last couple of years.
312
And so neither Washington nor I think Silicon Valley want to see a situation in which there's only one player and it's located all in Taiwan.
313
In preparing for this podcast, reached out to a few of your friends and colleagues.
314
And one of the questions that was suggested I bring to you is not an easy one, but if you were given the task to try and save Intel, what would your strategy be?
315
What do you think makes sense from here?
316
You know, I think the key challenge that Intel has faced for the last couple of years and has not resolved is who will be the customers for the new chip-making facilities it plans to open over the next couple of years.
317
So, Intel's got in-house a chip design business that produces chips for PCs, for example, and many of those chips will be produced in-house.
318
But Intel has been trying to win external customers for its manufacturing operations, and thus far has not succeeded at scale.
319
But everyone agrees that because the economies of scale in the industry, it's got to win significant volumes of external customers to be viable.
320
And so, the question is: who will these external customers be?
321
And there's only a small number of companies in the chip industry that have the volume necessary to contract with Intel to manufacture chips for them: NVIDIA, Broadcom, Qualcomm, Apple, they're all Silicon Valley firms, and there's only a half dozen of them, maybe 10 at the highest, at the upper levels.
322
And so, all of those companies, I think, have almost certainly been talking to Intel, trying to understand their manufacturing process.
323
But from what we know, publicly, none of them have been willing to make a big bet on Intel.
324
And so, the key question that's got to be sorted out is: who will the customers be that will provide?
325
Until you can answer that question, I think there will be a very big, there will be a lot of uncertainty hanging over the company's future.
326
You lay out in an extremely vivid way in CHIP War the convoluted, concentrated, bottlenecked supply chain around semiconductors, not least with companies like ASML and how just to create their machine which is used in the process, they have to find the most magnificent mirrors and lasers and all these other sorts of things.
327
As you think about the way the supply chain is changing, what are you looking out for?
328
I know that you've written before about potentially some of the countries in Southeast Asia playing a larger role.
329
Yeah, what's important to watch here?
330
I would focus on two different dynamics.
331
I think one is China, the second is Southeast Asia and India.
332
On the Chinese side, China's historically been the world's largest importer of semiconductors.
333
It hasn't produced large volumes of chips domestically.
334
It imports them from Taiwan, Korea, and elsewhere.
335
But that's beginning to change.
336
When it comes to low-end and mid-range chips, in particular, China is rapidly racing towards self-sufficiency.
337
And that matters because one of the really only products, the only manufactured goods that China imports from the rest of the world is semiconductors.
338
China is self-sufficient in basically everything else when it comes to manufacturers.
339
And so, if you were to ask yourself, what are the things China needs from the outside world?
340
What are the things that in a crisis China would struggle to do without?
341
Today, chips are at the top of that list.
342
In five years' time, chips will not, I don't think, be at the top of that list because China will be much, much more self-sufficient when it comes to mainstream semiconductors.
343
And I think that's going to have huge geopolitical implications, as well as obviously meaning a lot for the companies that are involved.
344
And so, China's success and self-sufficiency in mainstream semiconductors is something that we haven't thought enough about, with huge implications for Taiwan.
345
So, that's one big change in the supply chain.
346
I think a second is the way that Southeast Asia countries like Malaysia, but also India, are trying to play a much bigger role.
347
They've got huge ambitions.
348
They think that the effort by Western firms to shift their supply chains away from China open up real opportunities for them.
349
They've got rising incomes, growing populations, especially in India.
350
And so, if you look at how Apple, for example, has started producing 15% of iPhones in India, both because it wants access to the Indian labor force for manufacturing and it wants better access to the Indian market for selling, I think that's a great data point for how tech supply chains in general are becoming more dependent on India and Southeast Asia.
351
When you say that in five years' time, China will have, you know, will no longer have chips as the highest on its to-do list to sort of bring in-house.
352
Do you mean that even in the sense of those cutting-edge chips, or is it sort of everything up to the latest two developments?
353
How far behind are they, and how close can they get in a five-year period?
354
So, I think we can say with confidence that already China's got all.
355
And over the last couple of years, China's bought more quantities of chip-making tools than ever before, not just for itself, but actually any country in history.
356
China's bought more.
357
So they're building out the manufacturing base for everything that's 14 nanometers and above, which is those are exactly the types of chips you need for household appliances and automobiles and vehicles, but they're not the types of chips you need for AI, for smartphone processors, the really high-end chips.
358
That's where there's still uncertainty.
359
Right now, China can produce small volumes of seven nanometer chips, which are themselves a couple years behind where TSMC is.
360
And they're producing some for Huawei smartphones, some for Huawei GPUs.
361
But we know that Huawei is capacity constrained when it comes to GPUs because Chinese firms are still importing large volumes of NVIDIA chips that are legally downgraded to be allowed to sell into China.
362
In the future, China is going to try to use every possible way to break through the barriers that the U.S.
363
has set up.
364
And so my guess would be that in five years, China is still behind TSMC, but there is uncertainty there.
365
And if China were to catch up with TSMC, it would have really profound implications.
366
To catch up to U.S.
367
capabilities and TSMC's capabilities, is your expectation that China has to essentially create an alternative to an ASML EUV machine?
368
Is it that they, I mean, these are not super portable machines, but is it that they somehow managed to get one into the country in some way, shape, or form?
369
How does that happen?
370
So these machines are far too big to smuggle.
371
And so the question is: can China either A, replicate everything ASML has done, or B, find an alternative way of producing very small transistors on its chips.
372
In terms of replication, we know there's been a number of publicized incidents of employees leaving ASML, going to China, facing allegations of IP theft.
373
I presume that the Chinese government has hacked in or tried to hack into every major semiconductor company.
374
But we've now had six years of prohibition on the sale of ASML tools to China and basically no evidence whatsoever that China's made progress in replicating an EU V tool.
375
So this is extraordinarily hard to do.
376
I think it's worth following the second option, which is that China finds an alternative way around that doesn't require an EU V tool.
377
Now, the hard part here is that no one knows what this would look like because it hasn't been done.
378
And of course, there have been a lot of smart people with a lot of financial incentive to find cheaper, different ways to make high-end chips.
379
But it's also worth tracking this closely as well, because if you can't replicate an ASML tool, perhaps it's easier just to find an alternative pathway.
380
We've started to see startups enter the chip space.
381
Obviously, some of the larger companies are making chips of their own.
382
Are there particular trends or new design paradigms that you're following that you think are particularly promising, or you could see there being an avenue for one of these new companies to really get a meaningful hold?
383
I think one of the big trends in the industry for the last couple of years has been what's generally referred to as advanced packaging, which means bringing different types of chips together in different ways in formats that allow for faster data interconnect, for example, or help address heat dissipation issues.
384
And a lot of the capabilities that you need for better advanced packaging aren't necessarily about creating the smallest transistors, they're about using materials in different ways, for example.
385
So they leverage different types of expertise.
386
Now, I think in the Western industry, most people would see advanced packaging as a complement to having access to EU V lithography.
387
But I think it's worth being sensitive to the opportunity that you could have some pretty important breakthroughs that would provide you an entirely different pathway for improvements that take advantage of materials science, take advantage of capabilities in chemistry and physics that are focused on advanced packaging rather than the optics-focused pathway that ASML's lithography requires.
388
The AI revolution has, among other things, also increased the demand we're likely to need energy-wise.
389
How have you been starting to think about that part of this supply chain?
390
You know, I've spent some time studying companies like Commonwealth Fusion Systems and think that's a really fascinating way of trying to address our need for limitless energy.
391
What are you paying attention to?
392
So, I think about this in terms of short-term versus long-term.
393
I think in the longer term, whether it's fusion or small modular reactors, there's a number of interesting capabilities that would really be transformative and provide the power that will be necessary.
394
But I think for the next five or seven years, we'll be operating in a world where you have to make do with some combination of solar, wind, gas, and maybe if you're lucky, some.
395
And so I think for the short run question is: can we find enough power and can we build enough of the infrastructure, all of the transformers, have the gas turbines in place, and do it fast enough to meet AI infrastructure demand?
396
Because in the short run, I don't think any of the key trend lines are going to meaningfully change.
397
And the key dynamic has been this: that for the amount of computing power per dollar of spend has doubled every two years in the machine learning era, and the efficiency measured by watts per flop has doubled every three years.
398
And so you project a doubling every two years versus a doubling every three years, and you use a ton more power.
399
And that has been a relatively durable dynamic.
400
I think we've got to try to change that in the long run, but it's not going to change in the short run.
401
And so I've been struck by the number of folks I know at hyperscalers and AI labs who have become very deep experts in things like transformers.
402
Not because they wanted to be, but because they had to be, because now the AI supply chain stretches all the way into power infrastructure.
403
And actually, the limiting factor might not be electrons, but actually the transformers that you need to handle those electrons and deliver them to the data center at the right voltage required.
404
And so that is a limiting factor that I think most people would not have expected a couple of years ago, but has turned out to be fairly binding.
405
Are there ambitious projects in that space, specifically that do address that sort of five to seven year period that you think are really interesting and maybe play a meaningful role here?
406
You know, I think there's a gigawatt of power.
407
You can do it with gas.
408
You can do it with solar.
409
If you can find a solution for when the batteries are no longer full and the sun's off, some sort of battery gas solar combination.
410
You can do the wind in certain places, but again, you have intermittency issues.
411
The current energy mix only gives us so many options.
412
And so I think that the question is: can you, in a given location, find the right amount of surplus power or bring enough power online in a time horizon that is viable?
413
It ends up being, I think, probably less about creativity and more about can you manage the permitting processes around grid interconnection or building a lot of power, which is certainly not the world in which AI companies wanted to be living, but they're still constrained by those realities.
414
Speaking of big infrastructure projects, Stargate was certainly in the news not long before we've had this conversation.
415
How significant is that as a project, in your view?
416
It certainly captured a lot of attention and is showing how willing these players are to invest heavily.
417
Will it make a meaningful difference in the way that this industry shapes out?
418
Well, I think we're still learning exactly what the contours of Stargate are.
419
We know that OpenAI's got a big data center complex, for example, in Texas under construction.
420
That's been known for some time.
421
I think the fact that SoftBank is going to put a fair amount of money, it seems, into this effort is significant.
422
We haven't in the past had a lot of venture funding going into infrastructure.
423
That is a big new change.
424
And I think it's a positive change because you need a lot of money going into infrastructure to build out everything that's required.
425
I think a lot of the headlines around Stargate spending $500 billion were shocked by the $500 billion figure.
426
And I've got no direct intelligence as to whether that's the right final number.
427
But I've just observed Microsoft's going to spend $80 billion this year on AI infrastructure.
428
And so the idea of a leading AI company spending $500 billion over four years is not that much higher than Microsoft's observed spend this year.
429
So even if you're a Stargate doubter and you think it's going to underperform, I would posit that it is just one data point among many that there is just a vast quantity of infrastructure spend already happening.
430
And we should see Stargate, I think, in that light.
431
Even if it's not as real as Sam Altman suggests, I think it still certainly speaks to the fact that big AI companies realize they need a ton of infrastructure.
432
Yeah, and maybe we don't see many on the order of 500 billion, but the number that we see in the 10 billion, 50 billion sort of segment probably increases over the next few years, I expect.
433
And this year, Amazon has put a number of $100 billion of AI spend on the table.
434
Facebook, $60 or $65, I forget, billion dollars.
435
These are huge sums of money.
436
And again, I think when you start listening to those numbers, $500 billion over four years doesn't sound crazy.
437
Yeah, absolutely.
438
Before you studied semiconductors, you spent a lot of your career studying Russia and the major characters there, including Putin.
439
And in our previous conversation, our Modern Meditations interview, you talked about how Putin is really one of those figures who has actually profoundly influenced how you see the world, and in particular, how studying him made you appreciate the different motivations that even very modern people have, and that in his case, he's really motivated by very different things than what we might expect of a traditional leader.
440
I'm curious, as you look at the panoply of different AI magnates of different stripes, you have the Sam Altmans, you have Elon Musk, Jensen Wong, Mark Zuckerberg.
441
How have you started to think about parsing their motivations and how modern or perhaps sort of ancient their drives might be?
442
Well, I think certainly you're right that I've spent a lot of time thinking about Putin in the context of Russian history.
443
The Russian foreign minister, Sergei Lavrov, somewhat famously said that Putin only has three advisors.
444
They're Peter the Great, Catherine the Great, and Ivan the Terrible, which I think is true to the extent that it illustrates that he's not maximizing GDP.
445
He's not maximizing household income.
446
He's not maximizing any of the things that you would be taught in political science 101 that political leaders often maximize.
447
He's maximizing empire or glory or something different than that.
448
However, I think the basic I think the insight that empire building still is a character trait that characterizes some of our most influential business leaders.
449
I think that's true.
450
Another way of looking at it would be: if you tried to understand any of the figures you mentioned, whether it's Mark Zuckerberg or Elon Musk, by simply maximizing the number of dollars that they have in their bank account, I think you'd probably fundamentally misunderstand what drives them at this point, both because at some point the marginal utility of new dollars declines when you've got a lot of them, but also because I think they see their roles as being beyond that.
451
And there's room, I think, for critique of their visions as well.
452
But yes, it does seem that if you believe you're at this moment of rapid technological change, you believe you're at this moment of fundamental disruption of not just the tech sector, but the entire corporate hierarchy that is going to be set off by this technological change, you're probably thinking about it not in terms of dollars and cents or the margin profile of your business per se or anything that you might be taught in an accounting class, you're probably thinking about in terms of conquering and defeating your rivals as the first order approximation of what's driving you.
453
And then the financial metrics are sort of downstream of that more primal desire.
454
Yes, probably way downstream for most of these folks, as you mentioned.
455
I'm not sure if this is, we'll see if this goes anywhere, but I wonder if there's something unique about AI as a technology that appeals to a different set of motivations beyond empire building.
456
And I suppose what I mean by that is AI is so uniquely or singularly powerful, and it seems to at least speak to our desire to create God in one way or another.
457
Maybe that's too histrionic, but it's not so histrionic.
458
Are we thinking of leaders that are considering apotheosis in some capacity in the motivations here?
459
Or am I simply searching for something grander than really exists?
460
You know, that's an interesting question.
461
I think we've heard certainly Elon Musk talk about the need to harness AI so that humans are able to compete against AI in the future, that we have some sort of competitive edge.
462
I think that's interesting to think through.
463
I guess I'm struck by, on the one hand, I think you're onto something.
464
On the other hand, the day-to-day of AI companies is, of course, producing marginally better products that can win market share from their rivals and things like code generation, which has a certain parallelism to what you might do if you're trying to create God, but also seems pretty mundane when you're on the day-to-day of the running debug business.
465
Your code stack somewhere, your code base.
466
Yes, that's probably very true.
467
And in the day-to-day, maybe you get into that conquering energy and then on your return.
468
I'd love to finish up with a few modern meditation-style questions and jump into some fresh ones that hopefully I don't think I asked you last time around.
469
So, here we go.
470
If you had unlimited resources and no operational constraints, what experiment would you want to run?
471
So, I think one of the social processes that is the most important, but which we understand the least, is drivers of economic growth.
472
And it's impossible really to run experiments on economic growth.
473
You can't impose different treatments on different countries.
474
But if you could, you would learn fascinating things from that.
475
And the results could be really transformative to human welfare writ large.
476
So, that seems to me the questions that we know the least about that would benefit from hypothetical experiments like this.
477
What would a plausible version of it?
478
Well, not plausible because we're out of the realm of plausible here, but what would a version of that look like to understand how you would set up the right constraints, the right variables?
479
Well, we've had a couple of historical experiments that were produced for us by history.
480
The division of North and South Korea, for example, told us something about what works and what doesn't.
481
East and West Berlin or East and West Germany being a second.
482
And so, you could imagine, in a hypothetical world, drawing random lines across countries and applying different policy sets to each of them and seeing what the results would be.
483
Today, you can only do that at very tiny scale, or you can only do it by finding historical aberrations, like countries that were divided.
484
I wonder how far.
485
Interesting thing.
486
That's an interesting question.
487
What's a practice we should borrow from another culture or era?
488
As a historian, I suspect you maybe have a thousand of these and plenty that we shouldn't adopt.
489
Well, I think the practice that I think the most about and ask myself, how would I implement, is back to the era of civilian scientists during the Renaissance, when you could just be a generally educated person and build yourself a telescope and look up into the stars or think about what causes things to fall to the ground.
490
I read about those scientists and really look at them with wonder because I feel like nothing that I do or the scientists that I know do is anywhere in the realm of exploration of the type that was done at that time.
491
And I think it's fascinating to ask yourself: what are the types of questions that would have been asked by someone like Newton or Galileo that you ought to be asking yourself?
492
And I guess I generally feel that I'm only asking questions that are an order of magnitude as interesting as some of those figures from the Renaissance.
493
What a great prompt for oneself on a maybe weekly basis.
494
What would Newton do?
495
What would Newton be asking?
496
I was only recently learning that Newton really sort of burned out his mind towards the end of his life and went down a long rabbit hole of biblical numerology.
497
There's an extraordinary biography of Newton by an author named James Gleich, a short book, but really puts you in the mind of.
498
What's an underappreciated corner of the internet that you think more people should know about?
499
Where I try to spend more time than I actually do is reading foreign language newspapers, which is an analog thing to do, I know, on the internet.
500
But I also find that if you want differentiated opinion that is curated for you, but pushes you beyond what you're reading in your English language echo chamber, that's one of the best places to find it.
501
What are your chosen non-English newspapers?
502
Are you perusing Le Monde or some of the...
503
Well, I am biased by the languages that I can make sense of.
504
So generally, European newspapers plus the Russian press, which is, of course, full of falsehoods, but also gets some things interestingly right.
505
And I learn a lot from reading the Russian media.
506
I should have realized that you'd be trying to read it actually in these languages.
507
I was just assuming you were going somewhere and doing a nice Google Translate on each of them.
508
Sometimes too.
509
Final question.
510
What was the last great piece of media that you consumed?
511
And it could have been a film, a book, an article.
512
I'm asking this extremely selfishly so that I might check it out after this.
513
There's a wonderful book just published last year called A Brief History of Intelligence, actually written by someone who's not a neuroscientist or an academic by training, but wanted to understand how intelligence had developed from the first brains over many hundreds, millions of years of evolution.
514
I thought it was highly illuminating, learned a ton.
515
And I think it was particularly interesting to think about how our artificial brains, artificial intelligence systems, changing over time, and are we evolving them in a similar way that human brains evolved?
516
And the answer is yes in some ways, but I think no in others.
517
So it was immensely thought-provoking to read.
518
Wow, incredible.
519
Chris, thank you so much for joining us.
520
Oh, thank you for having me.
521
That's it.
522
Thank you for listening to this episode of the Generalist Podcast.
523
Please subscribe on Apple Podcasts, Spotify, or your preferred podcast app.
524
Ratings and reviews help others discover these discussions.
525
So if you enjoyed the conversation, I'd be grateful if you could take a moment to leave one.
526
For all past episodes and more, visit us at thegeneralist.substack.com.
527
See you next time as we continue to explore the future.