--- METADATA START ---
Show: N/A
Episode: The great monetary reset–Stray Reflections – Apple Podcasts
Host: Unknown
GUESTS: Marcel Castamovich
Guests: Marcel Castamovich
Source URL: https://podcasts.apple.com/ca/podcast/the-great-monetary-reset/id1723951474?i=1000703270206
--- METADATA END ---

 Today I'm joined by Marcel Castamovich for a thoughtful discussion on the intersection
 of macro and crypto and what it means about the future of digital assets. Marcel Volter noted
 doubt is not a pleasant condition but certainty is absurd. When it comes to the US economy doubt
 is growing and there is not just zero certainty but historic levels of uncertainty and yet you
 recently texted the direction of travel is clear. Help us see the world through your eyes.
 I think you need a north star and you need an anchor and I think the market leaves crumbs.
 They leave trails and you can follow them or you can dismiss them. I follow them and then
 explore them. So let's use gold as an example because I think it is the north star for this cycle
 in many many ways. What are we seeing in gold? If we were to think of the perfect
 environment for gold to perform it would not be with US rates higher than the rest of the world
 and a strong US dollar. So last year and over the course of this cycle we've had generally
 a strong US dollar and rates in the US that have risen substantially higher than the rest
 of the world. Yet gold had a historic performance last year so the residuals of a classic macro
 model on gold told you something is up. Something has changed. Most of the rising gold could be
 unexplained by traditional macro factors. So then you have two choices. So it's one as you can
 say it's mean reversion. I believe in my models. My model is always right. We're just going to
 mean revert or there's a regime change going on and that's where you do a deeper dive. That's
 where you dig. And when you dig what do you see? Foreign central banks are buying gold
 are buying it aggressively and not only are they buying it but they're repatriating it. They
 wanted that home. So that's the North Star. There's your new nominal anchor and then you
 peel the onion a little further and you're like okay so what does that world look like?
 And then you look at the new US administration for all the uncertainty and all the noise and
 all of these things. The direction of travel that they provide is pretty darn clear too.
 We're more inward focused. One way we're going to signal that is through very punitive tariffs
 with China. So that's now that solidified the Cold War and the inward focus nature of it.
 We're going to focus on asset revaluation including gold. The US holds about 8.1,000 metric tons
 of gold. China holds about 2.2. So they have a lead on gold. US has valued it 42 bucks. China
 has valued it 1,200 and something. So you have a lot of revaluation moved there. You have real
 estate to sell. Government real estate to sell. You have Fannie and Freddie to go public.
 And what do you do? Well you redirect those resources into things that you think are
 strategically important locally. One of those things is one of those things happens to be
 crypto happens to be Bitcoin. So all that to me is part of this nominal reset.
 And the constant in all of this is that government deficits and government debt
 for rich countries is too high. Where the US has a unique position in that regard is it's an
 external obligation unlike Japan. So then that's a claim on future income. So what do you do?
 How do you have two options? You can either boost up local incomes. Hopefully you do it
 through productivity. More likely you do it through some form of currency devaluation,
 some nominal lifts. Market's telling you it's through some form of a devaluation.
 Or you go to extreme fiscal prudence on local currency debt. Extreme fiscal prudence is very
 unlikely. I don't think the US for rich countries around the world are going to be running
 primary surpluses at 5% of GDP anytime soon. That's kind of what we need to see.
 So then you have this inward focus. And then what do those countries do in response to
 this new regime for care? So you focus on fiscal expansion, tax cuts in the US,
 Germanic defense expansion, so on and so forth. Self-reinforces that trend.
 So it's a, look, I think the North Star to me is clear. The path of reaching it is always
 the most difficult thing in finance. But it's playing out. Unlike speculation in the past,
 post GFC, where people speculate, "Oh, gold's going to, gold's going to triple
 in value." Here it's playing out under our nose. And nobody's really embracing it. ETFs were
 material outflow for gold last year, not an inflow. So it's super interesting. It's being
 led by strategic actors, not by hot market trading. Strategic actors are saying,
 "Okay, it's different. We don't know what to do. We're going to hoover up a bunch of gold."
 So I think that is your anchor asset in this cycle. And I think it's super important.
 A couple of points to mirror your observation. Gold has been outperforming the S&B 500 since
 2020. And even now, a question I like to think about is, what is happening that shouldn't be,
 or what is not happening that should be? The dollar should rise when uncertainty is high,
 because it's a safe haven, and the prospect of your tariffs should further boost it.
 But instead, it fell nearly 5% in the first quarter.
 Yeah. I mean, this is it. When things are happening that aren't supposed to happen,
 you should pause. And you should pause and say, "Okay, is the distribution I'm drawing from to
 make these observations?" It's changed. Why has it changed? Now, if it's changed just because
 of some market irregularity, then play the mean-reversion strategy. I mean, I think that's the
 losing strategy. If it's changing for structural reasons, for fundamental regime shift or
 paradigm shifts, however you want to think about it, then you have to reconsider how you
 think about your asset allocation, this strategic asset allocation. I think that's really
 important. The observation on Golden S&P, I think, is critically important.
 So, what do you benchmark to in this new nominal world? You benchmark to a real asset.
 You don't benchmark to something that the market anticipates is going to devalue a lot.
 Even though equities may provide some form of a cushion so that devaluation below,
 but you benchmark to a real asset. So, does gold play that role in this cycle? It has so far.
 It has so far. And I think that continues.
 So, from a sequencing perspective, what happens next?
 Look, I think my personal judgment—it's going to sound crazy, but my personal judgment
 is that this idea that macro uncertainty is unprecedented and it's going to take us quarters
 to—I don't really—I get it. We were de-trumped for a few years. So, it's like,
 oh, now it's going to be different. And it is different. It's very different, of course.
 But it's still very aggressive. And then, look, the art of the deal, I think—it's very rare
 for somebody to lay out how they think about negotiations so clearly and so openly.
 And if you follow that path, there are certain parts of what we're going to see
 in trade policies and things like that that are signal.
 The Chinese U.S. part of it, I think, is signal, for sure. It's called war.
 We know the fight's about space. It's about Bitcoin. It's about AI. It's about
 nuclear fusion, all of these things. But is it that way with Mexico and Canada?
 No, I don't think so. I think that's part of it. That's more part of the negotiation.
 You know, that's part of—we just want a fair deal. And you saw that last week when President
 Trump met with Prime Minister Carney, or had a conversation with Carney, and the conversation
 seemingly was quite respectful and polite. So, I think you're seeing those signals.
 So, the playbook to me is this Liberation Day is more of a turning of the page,
 rather than an extension. Turning of the page is, okay, the trade policy stuff is now behind us.
 Now, what's next? What's next is tax reform. That's on the agenda. Scott Besson alluded
 to it in his economic club speech. I think it was very clear. China doesn't do those things
 unnoticed. They just had a very strategic bank recapitalization plan that isn't really
 getting the fanfare, probably should. So, that's next on the list. I think
 asset, this concept of asset monetization, like what government asset can be monetized in the
 US to ease some of that burden or strategically reallocate some of those resources to things
 that are critical to inward-looking US. I think that follows on the table. And I do think
 you're going to end up with a new dollar record. The beauty of the trade policy is that it will
 pull people together to force a discussion on what value the dollar should be over time
 to alleviate these debt burdens, and I think it's a lot lower. Do you think it'll be explicit or
 implicit? Implicit. That's a great question. I don't know. It's so controversial to even
 thank you believing in some type of new dollar record. Every FX strategist on the street thinks
 it's lunacy. I don't. I think it's a very natural outcome. If you're already sending
 all the signals that there's a new world order, and you're also making it clear that the dollar
 is a permanent reserve currency just by virtue of its size, then the real question that you're
 asking is its value. And there is no doubt that if you have a meaningful external obligation
 and you want to have a negotiation as to what that dollar policy looks like,
 a meaningful decline in the dollar, 60% of global debt is dollar-based debt. That's going to help
 everyone. So there's a deal to be done there. And I think the art of the deal tells you
 that there'll be a discussion, whether they can execute on the deals, another thing altogether.
 But it can work to the advantage of the people that are at the table as well. So I do think
 that's the direction of travel. The latest ISM manufacturing survey showed that new orders
 fell while prices beat shut up. That's somewhat of a stack stationary scenario.
 Not really good for crypto.
 Yeah. Look, I mean, if we you're getting a meaningful amount of differentiation
 in crypto asset markets, and I think that's also been the case over the course of this cycle.
 So when crypto performs the historical norm, we don't have a ton of observation,
 but the historical norm is Bitcoin dominance goes down. What is it done in this cycle? It's
 gone up. And that's been going on for a long while now. So that observation alone tells you
 that Bitcoin has behaved differently from the field. You see this very, very clearly with
 Bitcoin and ETH, obviously, as well. Now, why is that? I think Bitcoin has a simple and unique
 story. And somehow it's become effective, where people have viewed this as the digital unit of
 collateral for the future digital economy. Now it's speculative to be fair. We don't know
 that with certainty. That's why it's volatility is so high. So we don't know that for certainty,
 but that's been the differentiating feature between Bitcoin and the field.
 So I think that differentiation has been really important. Still, there's a technological
 component, and there's a crypto tourism component. So when the economy is weaker,
 even with gold performing, Bitcoin has trailed. But other assets have trailed to a much, much
 greater degree. So certainly, I think the technological components of non-Bitcoin crypto
 assets have really suffered. And I think part of that is people are now looking at the business
 model saying, how does this integrate into the mainstream? And how do you make money using it?
 Is it a utility or is it a business? So there's a load of super interesting and useful technologies
 that people want to understand who's going to monetize those technologies. It could be
 that traditional companies end up monetizing those technologies better than the early movers
 in the crypto space. So as it enters the mainstream, there's no doubt that technology
 will be super useful. The question now that the market's assessing is, well, who's going
 to monetize them? Is it going to be PayPal or is it going to be Ethereum? Or is it going to be
 a combination of the two? Bitcoin also trades like gold sometimes and like Nasdaq sometimes.
 And in times of extreme macro volatility, it is usually the latter. Like this year, for example,
 Nasdaq fell close to 15%, and Bitcoin was down 30. If both the dollar and stocks decline,
 what will Bitcoin do? Up. Here's the beauty of what I love about crypto. Think of what
 we're doing in macro. So my roots are obviously macro. I love it.
 Macro policy is great because they're very transparent. So they give you a ton of data.
 And it's greatly appreciated. And they should be commended for it because it's not only
 they give you a ton of data, but it's accurate. So you can see how much the Fed has lost cumulative
 year to date, over $200 billion. They're for everyone to see you've got to dig and find it,
 but it's there. So you can get closer to the truth. The truth isn't out there,
 bringing it closer to it. Well, with blockchain, it's all there. I mean,
 it's a lot of information, but it's all there. So what do we learn about this downturn?
 It's all short-term traders. In the recent past, short-term traders have been stopped out.
 They've been responsible for more than 50% of the activity in Bitcoin. So is that a tourist?
 No, it's just it's a higher frequency trader that's using this asset more for trading purposes
 than they are for investment purposes. Now, what are the longer-term holders doing in that case?
 Take a look at the we can do it by by vintage by cohort. The three to six-month cohort
 isn't selling. So the three to six-month cohort of Bitcoin buyers, which are still in the money,
 by the way, that cohort, there's no activity. So they're going to become long-term holders.
 That's what all signals tell you. Now, they can change. They can change their mind, for sure.
 But that's what all signals tell you. So to go from 80k to 50k, you need another cohort to sell.
 The short-term traders are they're dumb. The more medium-term folks are now your next cohort.
 Well, what are they doing? They're holding. So then you say, okay, so they're holding.
 So then the scarcity argument becomes, look, there's all sorts of scarce things that won't
 have that. But once we agree that the asset is scarce and we all want it, then the scarcity
 value becomes relevant because the demand profile is with driving things. We care about demand.
 Without demand, there's nothing to talk about. So the demand profile is driven by this concept of
 of digital collateral, sort of value, gold-like features, whatever you want to characterize it.
 And it's speculative. Well, once you've walked into that mindset, you say, okay,
 let's do a far-forward glance at who the future buyers are. Well, we've got the US government.
 China will certainly not survive late by. They're not going to fall behind the US,
 just in case. They're already behind that gold. They're not going to fall back on
 digital collateral. So you've got China. Then you've got private companies that are doing
 the copycat strategy to micro-strategy, including Tether, including now GameStop.
 So you're going to see more and more of that transpire. You have the same in Japan.
 So then you do, back to the envelope, I estimate that 15% in the coming years,
 just through those sources alone, 15% of the permanent stock of Bitcoin will be absorbed
 by that demand. Well, then how do you absorb it? Then the miners who are producing that
 incremental supply. So let's say over the next 50 years, we're going to get about 5%
 new Bitcoin supply. Well, they need selling because they look out the window and they're
 like, well, everyone else is holding. They're forced sellers. They can sell. But otherwise,
 their strategy is to hold. In some cases, their strategy is to hold and issue debt to buy even
 more. So then even the marginal sources of supply is being held, not brought to market,
 unlike gold. So then this supply demand dynamic is real. So then how do you clear the market?
 You just have to find sellers. You just have to find the price where somebody's
 willing to sell to the marginal buyer. And then that scarcity value becomes clear.
 So then what you end up with are jumps higher. And that's what we saw last year.
 Last year, the correlation with gold was pretty high on average over the course of the year.
 But in periods of time, people were pretty bearish in the summer of last year.
 Like, Bitcoin has failed after the ETFs. Geez, we're trading 50K. Maybe we trade down to
 whatever the technical-- I'm not a technician. So whatever the technicals were telling,
 there was some serious concerns. And then you leap higher. And I think that'll be
 this idea of crashing up and then going through periods of boredom.
 And the really interesting part of this downturn of Bitcoin, relative to previous ones,
 one month implied vol on Bitcoin, peaked on an inauguration day. It's been down since,
 and Bitcoin has been down a bunch. So you're not getting these volspights. There's no big
 bid for Bitcoin, poets, and data. So it's behaving very, very differently than
 past downturns, which tells you it's probably an interruption in the trend.
 And then the question is, will it separate itself from crypto assets?
 And I think that's a big debate that's happening in the market.
 Does it kind of shift into a store value category with gold with a much
 lesser weight than gold, naturally? But just to say, hey, look, we believe in store value.
 There's going to be an important segment for capital asset, for strategic allocation.
 So we include Bitcoin in there. And you look out the window and you say, well,
 if governments are doing it, why wouldn't you? It's almost crazy not to.
 So you keep it in there as a speculative component. And the way you trade that or the way you
 weight that can differ. But you want to include that there. Well, then it starts to separate
 from the broader landscape of crypto, which will make everyone who's
 every Bitcoin maxi, that'll make their heart warrant.
 Another way to think about it, though, would be that Bitcoin is the last remaining crypto
 asset that's held up while the rest of the market is sort of corrected, right? So ETH,
 BTC spread has been right into an extreme. Solanas down 60%. And BTC raised the last asset
 that will eventually join the downturn. I mean, that's one other perspective,
 because what you're arguing for also then is a complete break in correlation from past cycles,
 where if you had an equity bear market, what you're saying now is if you do have an equity
 bear market, Bitcoin will not go down alongside stocks. You're going to have Bitcoin rally up
 despite stocks down. And we haven't seen that till now. So it requires some validation.
 No, no, no, no, I agree. I totally agree. Look, you have to be open-minded to the
 alternatives. Think of the initial downturn in that downturn in Bitcoin.
 Bitcoin was also differentiated from the rest. Like the AI agents were the hot thing in the
 fourth quarter of last year. They turned well before the downturn in Bitcoin. And the argument
 there was, look at how well Bitcoin's differentiated in a plate catch-up. The interesting thing
 from a non-crypto perspective, I do think you should look at these crypto assets as a first
 responder, because it's a true market. In the sense that the trade 24/7 and the market has to clear.
 So it's a first responder on the way down, and it can be a first responder on the way up as
 well. We saw this in March of 2023 with the banking strains. Bitcoin started rallying
 in advance of the Fed intervention on the banking side, and then everything else followed.
 So I think that'll couple of ways, but it does take some imaginations for sure.
 And the alternative narrative is you can argue that that middle cohort, once prices
 force them to think of things differently, they will. And you have to be open-minded
 to that for sure. Gold has just a very, very long history. I kind of find the debate between
 gold and Bitcoin in the Twitter sphere to be a bit juvenile at some level, because I'm like,
 they're just two totally different maturity levels. So of course there's going to be a lot of
 differentiation, differentiation of views and all this thing, and Bitcoin vol has to be higher.
 There are way more tourists than Bitcoin than there are in gold. The trading volumes are much
 higher. So you can do more things with it from a trading perspective. But I think I take your
 point that you have to be open-minded to the idea that it has integrated with
 those who are proponents of the technology. And if tech gets wrecked, then Bitcoin can trade
 with it. That's a completely reasonable perspective. It's not one I hear to, but it's reasonable.
 You mentioned last summer, and back then, Germany was selling their holdings. And to me,
 that was a trigger to buy when the German government is selling their holdings,
 because it reminded me of the Bank of England selling gold at the turn of the century before
 gold was going to market. But at the same time, I also had this expectation that once
 the US announces a strategic reserve, it would be a time to sell, perhaps.
 And you've got the US announcing that, Brazil announcing that. How do you think about that
 as a sort of sentiment marker? Yeah, I think it's very important. I think it's
 looked at the highs in Bitcoin were on an inauguration day. So I do think it's important.
 How would I think that? Look, there's two ways it plays out. So we know short-term
 traders are going to be price sensitive. They're going to be price driven. So the minute
 the price has come down, then you start that cycle. So I think it's not hard to explain
 how we had to sell off and why it's differentiated from gold. I think that you can
 draw from the data very easily, where you go from here, it becomes really important.
 Then you go back to just demand supply dynamics. So in the event that long-term
 holders look at sovereigns as their exit liquidity, if you will,
 then it's not a positive sign. Then it's like, OK, now all these sovereigns are going to buy.
 Who are they going to buy from? They're going to buy from me. Thank you very much.
 My cost basis is super low, not me, literally, but some whales out there.
 My cost basis is super low. I'm happy to sell to you. They have to buy it from someone.
 So if you could tell that story, and that's a very different narrative.
 Ultimately, the reason why I don't think that is the right narrative is I do feel like
 the unique properties of Bitcoin from a collateral perspective.
 If you believe that the future of the finance is digital in some way, shape, or form,
 then having a unit of collateral that mirrors the speed and authentic nature of those rails
 I think is incredibly useful. Now, why isn't it a tokenized version of gold?
 It started to validate. It's just more work, whereas Bitcoin is natively digital and natively
 decentralized. So I think those features are just making it a unique interplay with the future
 funds. And we don't know what that future is going to look like. I mean, when we start doing
 the very far-flung elements of that future, we just don't know what that future is going
 to look like. And having that unique role, I think, is something. So I'd be surprised if,
 after all of this patience, it's at 85K that the super long-term holder says, "You know what,
 I'm happy to gift my Bitcoin at those prices to the U.S. Treasury possible."
 But it seems more in keeping with recent themes that it's just the volatility we're
 seeing in short-term trading. What do you take away from the revised 2025 Bitcoin Act?
 Okay. I think there's a tech. Can I get into some nerdy micro points?
 Okay. The details are really interesting. And there were some clarifications on the
 details with this Act. And whether the Act passes or not, I think it's secondary. But the
 details have been worked out. I think are really, really important. So there now. 1934, 1974,
 and maybe the inflection point was 2024, when gold started to deviate. I just used
 the fours just for the segment. 34 and 74 were important inflection points for gold.
 You could hold it privately in 1974 again in the U.S.
 Nixon got the U.S. top the gold standard in '71 in 1934 is when you had the gold being held by
 the Treasury taken away from the Fed. So the Fed held it on behalf of Treasury, but it was
 Treasury holdings. So those are on the Fed balance sheet. Those are gold certificates. Now there's
 no certificate. It's more of a symbolic role that it plays than anything. But in this case,
 it becomes really important. So it's valued at $42. You revalue that to pick your number.
 You want to maybe give the Fed a cushion. Maybe you let the Fed
 pay down. It's implicit obligation that it's built up, which is $200 billion plus.
 There's some nuance there. But you revalue the gold stock. That creates a surplus within the
 Federal Reserve system. Then the Treasury said, "Okay, please direct the funds of that surplus
 to my account." Because that's a Treasury asset. It's not a Fed asset. So you've effectively
 monetized the gold. You're not selling the gold. This is, I think, very, very important.
 And this is the detail that wasn't spelled out the way I'm spelling it out now, but it was
 implicit in the act. And it was new. That's the important part. It wasn't in the original one.
 It was in the new one. So they've worked out details. You have an army of people who think
 you're really hard as to how this is going to work. Your revalue, the Fed has a surplus,
 that surplus then is the ownership of the Treasury. You've effectively transferred electronic
 dollars to the Treasury account. And then the Treasury can decide what strategically to do
 with that. Part of that is going to be used to buy Bitcoin. So it's not that you're selling
 Bitcoin. A selling gold, excuse me, to buy Bitcoin. It's that you're revaluing gold to buy
 Bitcoin. So you're creating a monetization channel, if you will. So I think the details of that
 bill, I think were super interesting. And I found them really quite intriguing that they had gone
 to that level of crystallization. And they fly good. They fly good in the bill.
 Scott Besant also said that we're going to keep the U.S. the dominant reserve currency
 in the world and really use stablecoins to do that. How?
 So I think that you now have two stablecoin deals. You have the Genius Act and Senate.
 You have the Stables Act in house. The leader of the crypto charge in the house,
 the person's doing all the work name is chasing me right now.
 Yesterday just gave some color on where we are in that process.
 Says there's 80% commonality between those two bills. And they want to move it forward
 into law. They want to work with their Senate partners to get this thing into law. Now,
 David Sachs had had a press conference with House and Senate,
 Agriculture, and Finance. And they were all singing from the same
 hymn book. And it was, we need to start with stablecoins and we need to get it done.
 And that's exactly the path that they've taken and you're almost there.
 So once stablecoin becomes legislated and the rules around it become clear,
 it will rapidly enter into the mainstream of payments. Now, I think it's really important.
 The way these bills are written, stablecoins are viewed as payment tools,
 not investment tools. So it will integrate into payment systems.
 If you want yield, if you want to earn yield, it's a big source of frustration for people
 that hold stablecoin. If you want to earn yield on your stablecoin deposit,
 then swap it atomically into a tokenized money fund and earn yield.
 The same way you would in the banking system, you would sweep your, if you have excess cash
 balances in your checking account and they're earning nothing, you want to sweep those excess
 balances into a money fund. And those services apply and they're a bit painful to execute.
 Well, on digital rails, this is all atomic, right? It happens very quickly.
 So those are going to be separated. I think that's very clear from the bill.
 And that's not controversial. Now, it's controversial within other parts of the
 crypto community, but within legislators, that's not controversial.
 So you get the stablecoin acts to sink and pass, become law, and banks will rapidly
 enter the market. It'll be a big, big debate as to what do you build the infrastructure?
 Do you buy the infrastructure? Do you rent the infrastructure that they exist?
 We know it works. It works brilliantly well. So that pattern becomes rapid.
 Some are already ahead of it. Companies like Stripe, Stripe, but bridge ahead of all this,
 anticipating that we would finally have a very clear use case for crypto.
 So they're ready to go from an infrastructure perspective.
 PayPal has worked tirelessly on building your own infrastructure.
 They ended up partnering with Paxos. So you're going to see more and more of this
 occur in very rapid succession. Then, obviously, the stock, the AUM stock of
 dollar stablecoin goes up a lot. And what's the offsetting asset?
 Well, in period one, the offsetting asset is a US Treasury.
 That's the only thing it's going to be allowed.
 So that helps from a dollar demand perspective that helps a lot.
 And the fascinating thing is we can say whatever we want about US fiscal,
 about macro uncertainty, about the external obligation in the US,
 the crypto market self-selected the dollar as its currency.
 Bitcoin is an asset. So it does not behave like a currency.
 We buy it and we stuff it under the mattress. It does not behave like a currency.
 The technology, the rails can be used for dollar stablecoin if you want.
 They're not. Ethereum has dominated that space.
 So for whatever reason, they're not. But it's kept the Bitcoin narrative
 very, very simple and the Ethereum narrative very complicated.
 So you end up with a fiat backed stablecoin that then rapidly enters into that mainstream
 that's been self-selected by the crypto community as the currency of choice.
 And I think that is the signal to the US that, geez, this is a gift for the US in many ways.
 So for all the faults, the crypto asset market self-selected the dollar.
 It could have taken the end. It could have taken digital gold, all sorts of things
 it could have done. It took the dollar. And I think that is a blessing for US policy.
 And I think they get it. I think they really get it.
 So AUM is going to go up a lot. How much is anyone's guess?
 Um, digital investments in, in shorter term instruments is going to go up a lot because
 people are going to want the yield. So they're going to say, look, I want to sweep this into a,
 into a money fund. Well, it's going to be much easier to do that on digital rails
 than it is on traditional rails. So tokenized money markets become popular.
 Then forget about tokenizing paper, just issue natively digital.
 And then you get into those rails, which I think will be really important.
 Um, so all of that starts to happen once the stablecoin, once the stablecoin acts
 passed into law. And I think that's a, it'll be a, it'll be a quiet, but really big moment.
 So, uh, for finance more broadly, not just for crypto, but we find, we will finally have
 a use case that's a killer use case for everyone to use. And people won't even know they're using
 crypto. They'll just use all these tools on crypto rails. And I think that's really important.
 I think that's the, the less we speak about, um, you know, the intricacies of the,
 the nuances of crypto. And the more we speak about the user experience,
 I think, uh, I think the better it is for average people.
 I mean, this is a discussion within the community. Is that the firms like
 Pimco, BlackRock and the banks will, will, um, use data coins mainly to make money from
 their own clients and keep everything within their own systems. For example,
 instead of selling US drives for dollars and then using those dollars to buy a BlackRock
 fund, they can just swap directly into a BlackRock stablecoin in the blockchain.
 And instantly, and without extra steps in this way, BlackRock basically acts like a mini bank.
 And that fits with the trend of large asset managers and battery equity firms controlling
 massive balance sheets. So it's not, you know, leading to big shifts in global capital flows.
 It's more about how traditional finance players use new tech to run their businesses more
 efficiently. From the end customer, like he pointed out, nothing really changes. They
 still won't interact with the blockchain directly. Just like the ADF buyers today,
 don't think about how ETFs are built. Banks will basically become the layer two or interface
 layer that handle all the blocks and complexity behind the scenes. For the everyday user,
 it'll be all invisible. They won't even know anything changed.
 And look, I think the idea of the multi chain world where banks become layer two is,
 I think it's a really, really interesting perspective. Um, so thinking here, here's,
 here's a wild thing. So all this starts from this idea of decentralization and bringing
 users of capital and providers and capital closer together. All that can still happen.
 Right. It can all still happen. But what, what did we learn from the ETF? It's,
 it just as a matter of fact, putting an ETF rapper around Bitcoin
 made the features of the underlying lesser. It trades less and traded on weekends.
 You don't hold it, hold it directly, yet the demand was off the charts.
 So that surprised me. I mean, so when you're surprised like that,
 you then have to assess why. So you talk to people who own it. You're like, well, it's easy to buy.
 Um, I don't care that I can't retrieve the collateral. This is, this is more of a trade
 for me or more of a portfolio allocation. So these are things I just need to make sure that
 it's secure. And I really trust the brand. Okay. So then, then all of a sudden in some,
 at some level, BlackRock has centralized a decentralized asset. And it's not centralized
 because BlackRock's doing anything wrong or right or right. It's by, it's by user choice.
 Users have stood up and say, I prefer the centralized model because I don't trust myself.
 So it's very helpful to know that, remember it is Coinbase, BlackRock, JP Morgan, pick,
 pick your poison. It's very, it's very comforting to me to know I have a group of experts that
 think about this stuff all day or making sure I'm protected because I have other things to do.
 So if that's the world we live in, then ironically, you'll end up in a world where everyone has
 their own stablecoin. Everyone has their own layer two, right? And where do we already see this?
 Sony. Sony is a very old conservative company. And let me tell you, their layer two
 is super interesting. Everybody should just thought, even if you spend 10 minutes on it a week,
 it's just worth a glance. This is not a company who should be leading in this space.
 And they are. And what's their vision on this? They've created Sony, which is their layer two.
 That's their web three, let's say. They've created a marketplace, sonify.
 All their IP is going to get shifted to Sony. So all the IP that's now lingering around all
 these other platforms, be it Amazon and movie form, it's all going to come back to the,
 to their web three. PlayStation is going to ultimately be on web three, right? They won't
 have to ship these boxes anymore. It's great. And now we're not there. It's not fast enough yet,
 but, but they're starting. Now, if you want access to Sony IP to make a video through it,
 you've got to be part of Sony, sign up. Now, so what's the big, and people are like,
 well, why do I want to sign up for everything? I'm like, you already do. How many memberships do
 you have to this and that and the other? And you're just going to have a mechanism that
 understands your identity. That's where we're going to see terrific leaps. Like Ethereum has
 just done a new identity application on their platform that screens for legality,
 effectively. So you're going to have these identity tools that come up that will say,
 okay, this is who the person is. So signing up for Sony is going to be trivial. It's just
 not going to be difficult. And there's going to be a million of these different things.
 You're going to take the clubs you want to be a part of, but then what have you done? You've,
 you've kind of centralized and you've monetized that, that experience. And you want to be part of
 the Sony group, the Sony club, whatever it may be. Now we had that earlier in this cycle,
 like sandbox, or at least trying to do the central land is one that my son and I play
 around with quite a bit. I really loved it. They'll do, you know, but they were trying to do
 this. They say, okay, we're going to be the new new age for this. And then all of a sudden,
 Sony steps up and says, well, if you want our content, you got to join our club.
 So guess what? Everyone's going to join the club. So it's, uh, I think, I think a multi-chain
 world and then think of the infrastructure that you need sort of make that, make that
 multi-chain world run and you're on to something. And you, then you've got a lot of
 interesting potential investment things to do. You know, Ethereum was seen as a global
 computing network powering tokenization and it's had a rough cycle because it's
 institutional wave into stablecoins be the catalyst to finally turn it around.
 Rough cycles and understatement. It's had a rough cycle. Look, it's
 it's done so many great things. And that isn't captured in the price.
 So again, similar to the gold conversation, when things happen that aren't supposed to happen,
 you have to then peel the onion and ask why. Um, so I think I think it's really important to
 separate the two. The things that Ethereum have done well is it is the, it is the base layer of
 choice for institutions. If it's, if it's base with Coinbase, if it's biddle is dominated
 by Ethereum, biddle, which is the on-chain money market fund for BlackRock.
 They've had a meaningful rise in AUM more recently at the margin. That's all been Ethereum. So
 Ethereum is the overwhelming dominant share. Um, outside of, outside of Tron that powers,
 that has legacy power with the theory, with, uh, with, uh, tether,
 Ethereum dominates stablecoins. So they've done a really amazing job of encouraging a
 community to build within their ecosystem. Um, the efficiency of transaction has improved
 the time with these layer twos. Uh, and that's all been part of the rollout of upgrades to
 the Ethereum protocol. Now, the hard part is Ethereum starts to feel more and more centralized.
 So if you're, if you're an original actor in Ethereum and you have this decentralized vision,
 you're like, what happened? What happened to my, what happened to my vision? So naturally,
 that's created a fracture in the community where they look at it and they say,
 I didn't sign up for a centralized tool. So you've got that fracture and that's playing out in,
 in crypto Twitter and elsewhere. And that's understandable. Um, so you have, you have that
 challenge. And then you have the other challenge of, okay, if, if Bitcoin is the unique,
 is in the unique position of being the collateral of choice,
 then what's your value proposition? Okay. Then it's revenue. So where Ethereum revenues,
 they're on the floor. Despite all of this activity, revenues have come off. Why? Because
 of all the efficiency improvements. They've done such a, such a good job with efficiency improvements
 that they've, they're taking a smaller stake. So the layer two's end up taking a larger
 stake. They're like, okay, well, how do you change that? You need block space to be occupied.
 You need more and more and more layer twos to say I'm signing up for Ethereum.
 And then you need a vision that's more business-like and they're starting this, right? You have new,
 you have new leadership at the foundation. You have an institutional version of Ethereum
 and you're going to have a board send it up. What does the board do? The board overlooks the overall
 operations to say, how are you guys making money? You know, like any board, are you doing your job,
 are you true to your vision or how you're making money? I suspect that'll, that'll be
 ultimately how it plays out. So if you think of it from a tech perspective, then what they've
 done is they've driven down the cost to increase, increase user activity, getting people into
 their ecosystem. And then they're going to have price and power down the road.
 Now that's highly speculative. That's how I think it plays out. But that's not how it's
 played out. So I think the price performance is more this idea that as we look beyond Bitcoin,
 you have to demonstrate your business model. And it's very hard to do for a lot of these
 because they're built more as utilities than they are as revenue-generating machines.
 And Bitcoin has this unique characteristic. And then the rest, how do we look at your economics?
 And I think that's where the struggle comes. And look, we're going to get clarity on this
 soon enough. Because as stablecoin enter the mainstream, and as we start to get investment
 products, we're going to start to see how Ethereum behaves in that world. Because the use case
 for Ethereum isn't really in question right now. The economics are.
 So how do you value it? How do you determine whether current levels are attractive?
 I've thought of it a million different ways. But the simplest way that I've come up with
 recently is if Ethereum is the base layer for this future of finance, and we like it because it's
 secure. Bitcoin advocates will say we're more secure. I think almost everyone will agree with
 that. But we're not building on Bitcoin. So it's a moot point, right? You can build on Bitcoin,
 but it's not happening. And one proposal as well, Ethereum is just a test net for the future
 of Bitcoin possible, right? All the advances we're seeing in Ethereum just roll up into
 Bitcoin possible. But that's not where we are. So if you think of it as the foundational layer
 to this future of finance, and then we think of it in the context of proof of stake.
 So the interesting thing with Ethereum is that despite the underperformance, the percentage of
 ETH that's state is basically not budged. It's surged and then has been steady. So you haven't
 had a capitulation there. So imagine what the world looks like if you have a capitulation
 there. I mean, ETH valuation would go down a lot. I'm watching that very closely. I find
 that really interesting. So at its core, those who are committed to the protocol are still
 present. That's really important. And how do I think about that? And based on current dynamics
 and the staking that's involved, you're getting a 3% yield in ETH or staking for
 basically being part of the security network. So then, as a foundational layer to finance,
 then 3% times the notional value of Ethereum is effectively the insurance cost per annum
 or the overall system. So then what should that insurance cost be? What's the right number?
 So is it 3% on 100 billion? It seems low. So we're going to pay $3 billion a year
 to secure the future of finance. That's it. That's going to be our insurance policy. It seems low.
 So if you think of it as the coupon is basically this insurance paid for the security of the
 system, the more and more people that join it, I think you can then back into the valuation
 based on the security profile. I think that's one way of looking at it. So almost like an
 insurer bond, if you will. So it has a bond-like characteristic. Now, you still need the revenues
 to make this thing work, right? You're still going to ultimately look at it as a revenue
 model, like you wouldn't insurance. But I think in that context, there can, in some way,
 is maybe this insurance-type approach to valuing Ethereum. So I think it's a lot higher in that
 world. A technologist would love the idea of making things super efficient, inviting people
 to build and use the protocol, and then focus on pricing power later. So that's the Uber model
 amongst others, Airbnb model. I mean, this is how a technologist would think about
 giving their technology into the mainstream. If you think of it in that context, then
 the future for Ethereum is very bright. Can they get there? Is the ultimate question that
 people have right now? Because even if we do have tokenized stocks, bonds, leverage loans,
 MBS, CMBS, and all of these issued on ETH, doesn't necessarily mean that the ETH price
 goes higher. Doesn't have to be the case. No, no. Look, it behaves like a utility.
 And this is really important. I think it's really important. And so does the infrastructure, by the
 way. So optimism is doing great things. They're rolling out this super chain where you're not
 going to have to worry about bridging or any of this stuff. If you're in the Ethereum ecosystem,
 you're going to easily just triangulate across all the different components of the ecosystem.
 Amazing tech, right? You think of the money that's gone into these things as accelerated
 research that was dead, like compression technologies and ZK roll-ups and all of this stuff. There's
 no money in this stuff. And crypto has rejuvenated all of it. And it's incredibly useful.
 But is it structured in a manner that's attractive from an investment standpoint?
 The infrastructure does not trade, especially well. Same like is another amazing
 piece of infrastructure. If you're in a multi-chain world, you're going to need
 something to make all those chains communicate. You're going to need a central repository for
 data in a safe place to transmit that data. But they've solved that problem. But they also have
 been basically stagnant from the price perspective for the past four or five years. So you have
 this tug of war right now that I think it'll take some time. It'll take some time.
 So the clearest trend is that we're going to see stablecoin AUM go from roughly $200 billion.
 So let's say $2 trillion over the next five years. If that happens, how do you play it?
 Like, what's the best way? I think what you need to do is to look up and down the chain.
 So it's who monetizes the rails could be a stable. So we learned today that
 circles are going to be going public. Is it the direct ownership of a stablecoin
 issue? Because they become a technology company. Forget about their ability to
 harvest yield and think of that nature. Their technology is so useful that everyone's going
 to rent it out. Do you start thinking it that way? So there's the narrow case.
 And I think people are going to focus on that. But I think you go up and down the chain and
 you say, okay, so with stablecoin is a payment tool. What else are we going to use it for?
 We're going to have cards. Well, who's leading in card technology? And who's leading on the
 investment technology. So we're going to sweep into money funds. Well, who's leading on that?
 Is it is it BlackRock? Is it others? Do they all create walled gardens that actually make it
 harder to get out of the BlackRock and over to a Vanguard or Fidelity or whatever it may be?
 I think you go up and down that infrastructure chain and figure out who is supplying a useful
 service to the end user. And I think that's the stuff you're going to want to own. And look,
 it could be the conventional companies. It could be that these and MasterCard figure it all out
 and they win. I have my doubts. I think on that side, those who have been extracting unusual
 margin from the ecosystem, I think, are vulnerable. They have to pivot very rapidly. And this is
 where you have to admire the pivot that BlackRock's made. What are they really pivoting to? They
 see this is the potential future. They see our chain asset management's potential future.
 And that's a potential disruptor to ETFs. And they need to learn about and get involved. And
 they're involved. So they are clearly pivoting to that potential future. Well, the margins will
 come down. But their potential size would go up a lot. So they see it. And many others have
 fought it. So I think you go up and down that supply chain. I think it's subtle. I don't think
 it's going to thump you over the head. I think it's subtle. It's going to take a lot of work.
 So this is where equity analysts, technology analysts, financial analysts will understand
 the new startup world. They're going to have a heyday. They're going to have a lot of funds.
 Is it still pure play? Yeah, there are. But they're like circle the pure play.
 Circle is going to go public. That's a pure play, for sure. And they could be super interesting.
 But I think that's going to be the first vision that people have that it's going to be it's
 going to be narrow. The first vision will be like, oh, we have stablecoin legislation.
 Who's involved in stablecoin? How can I play circle? Great. And look, and they have tech that
 works. And they're going to fit into the US regime perfectly. So that's a that's a pure
 play. I think to me, the obvious pure plays, okay, that's fine. Like, I don't know enough about
 it to be to be to to to to advocate or understand how it's going to be priced.
 Not not my expertise, but but I will say that if that's the pure play, then then the knock-ons.
 Who is going to use those routes? Let's say circle is a home run. Well, it's a home run
 because then everyone's ranking their tech. So they they now get viewed as a tech company.
 Okay, great. So then who's using their tech and how? And then those are going to be the
 names that I think are going to be are going to be very interesting to refer to. And the other
 there's a small point to make here that's non non trivial. The velocity of stablecoin
 is exceptionally high because it moves atomically into that and and and settlement is is final.
 So if I send you a dollar right now in a matter of seconds, it's yours. No longer mine.
 If that's if that's the world we move to who who loves long weekends banks, right? It increases
 their float. They're like, Oh, great. I earned the float. This is great. I'll send your wire on
 Tuesday. You know, it's a it's a bank holiday on Monday, extra day. And look, and people say,
 wow, big deal. It's only a small amount. Well, it's a small amount, but a bunch of days and
 a lot of money. So all those free lunches go away. Right. So so then but the other thing that
 also goes away, it means as a company, I can manage my cash balance as far more truthly.
 Because I know when when I'm going to be receiving money, I don't need a big as big of a buffer.
 So right now you need this buffer in in your cash balance is just to just to accommodate
 movement of movement of funds. Certainly true of acid allocators big time when they're
 redeeming from a fund and moving fund moving 90s to another fund data. So that buffer is a
 deadweight loss to the system. Well, that buffer goes way down in a world of instant
 final seven. So then how much do you need in in the payment stablecoin to satisfy
 to satisfy that demand? Well, if cash demand comes down, you may not need as much AUM as
 in stablecoin. And then we tend to think we're extrapolating to an AUM of stablecoin as though
 the system the way it currently runs is the one that's been running the future. Well,
 my cash always going to go way down, right? Because I don't need the buffer.
 So I think that's going to be a really important feature. The velocity of stablecoin, I think,
 is massively underappreciated. And it's hyper efficient compared to cash, obviously.
 And we only need to whatever it is, two trillion plus dollars in circulation
 in the US in the global monetary system. It's paper currency running around. So that's not much.
 Shadow banking is obviously much greater. But part of that shadow banking is again,
 this buffer. So I think that's going to be really important. And then who benefits from that
 efficiency? Well, it's a consumer. Ultimately, not day one, because day one, the users of the
 tech are going to extract that margin. But then competitive pressures are just going to bid
 that margin down. So it's a way better for average people. It's just going to be better. You're
 going to get better service at better prices. Period. You're bringing the internet to finance
 finally. George Soros assumed that markets are always wrong. And he looked for the
 flaw in every investment thesis. What flaws are you noticing in Bitcoin?
 Oh, that's a great question. And that's my hero. So now it's a double whammy.
 Oh boy. I mean, there's a lot of hype around quantum.
 So I won't flag that in part because there's a great letter for your listeners. It's called
 Bitcoin Optech. And it's where the people who are actually making sure Bitcoin runs properly,
 it's where they contribute to this letter. And it's a must read. For anyone that's
 involved in Bitcoin, it's a must read. And it should really contribute to the people
 behind the letter. And it's excellent. I understand about one tenth of it. But I go through it.
 I go through it right every week. And quantum came up. And they've discussed it. And they
 have a plan. So I'm like, okay, what are the risks you're really going to worry about?
 Are you going to worry about the risks that are so obvious that the people who were on the
 front lines for it have assessed it, have a plan, and they're like, yeah, we feel comfortable. So
 I don't want to be flipping about it because it's dangerous. But at the same time, I take
 great comfort, kind of like Y2K back in the day. It's like, we don't get ahead of this.
 The whole system is just going to shut down. And you said it enough that everyone got
 ahead of it. And even the countries that did nothing didn't have a problem. No planes crashed.
 I don't want to be flipping about that risk because it's non trivial. But at the same time,
 it's on the radar. So then what's what to me is can be a challenge is
 Bitcoin is a technology is not being embraced. It's not being embraced for its tech features.
 And it puzzles me a little bit. Why isn't stablecoin run a Bitcoin?
 I've asked the question to people who are really keen to see the technology progress.
 So it's taking this kind of narrow rule as a store of value. And you see it in the behavior
 of folders. You buy it and stuff down to your mattress. And you make fun of the people who
 use it to buy a pizza. And we'll celebrate pizza day and be like, how that pizza cost you
 a hundred grand with the benefit of hindsight. That's a narrative.
 Money's a narrative. Gold's a narrative. Gold became so useful in the store of value
 that we don't use it for industrial purposes. It's a great conductor. And it's priced itself
 out of any industrial use case. Maybe I have a little bit in my teeth. But otherwise,
 it's priced itself out of an industrial use case other than really, really fine points.
 Bitcoin is pricing itself out as a technology tool at some level. So
 it can fulfill that goal. But right now that goal is a narrative. And it's still a young
 asset. So if I were to say there's if there's one element of the Bitcoin thesis, it's not.
 It doesn't have to be the case that Bitcoin is the ultimate new marair collateral for the
 digital ecosystem. It can be tokenized gold. It can be something. It can be that the U.S.
 marches down a path of extreme fiscal conservatism and moves back to some kind of quasi rules-based
 policy that's linked to hard assets. That can happen too unlikely, I think. But you have to be
 open-minded to those outcomes because you just don't know. The world changes and then policy
 changes with that role. So the one element that I think kind of pulls at me a little bit is it
 right now, it's a speculative narrative. And it's pulling out that way. But it's a speculative
 narrative. And I think that's the part that you can't just will it to being the collateral
 new marair for the digital economy. It has to serve that pump. There's no repo market, for
 example. How can it be? You have this pristine unit of collateral and lending and borrowing
 against it is very difficult. And it's very difficult. So those are the features that
 they're going to have to develop. And so those to develop, the community is going to have to
 embrace those features. And that I think is really important. What else comes up for you as the
 bear case? I mean, look, it's a demand supply dynamic. So anything is disruptive to the
 demand dynamic. And the demand dynamic right now is dominated by store-value use case.
 That's you just see it in the nature of holdings. So I keep returning to that.
 So people will say, well, what if Satoshi were to sell the tokens? Obviously prices are down
 a ton in that day. If this wallet that's been stagnant, it becomes activated. There's no
 question of the direction of price. But at the same time, if you ask the Rubicon in terms of
 the narrative, then there would be demand to absorb it. So that's a bad day or a bad year.
 But it's not the end of it. The beauty of bitcoins can't kill it.
 Look, let's go back to 2010. There was a code error. And how many Bitcoin were created? I'll
 forget the number off top of my head, but was it 84 billion? Block 70, 760, whatever 1000,
 76,000. And it was a code error. And who fixed it? People. People were like,
 that's not right. That's not doing what it was supposed to be doing. So they instantly
 fixed it. Amazing. And went back to the chain. And no issue. The chain still worked, right?
 It's regarded as downtime. Actually, it was working fine. It's code error that required an
 intervention to then fix it. So even in cases like that, I'm like, okay, if people are
 incentivized to keep this thing safe and secure, they will. That's what I learned from 2010.
 I'm like, that's amazing. And it wasn't even worth anything back then. That's an amazing
 outcome. So now that it's a $1.7 trillion market cap, there's a huge incentive to make
 sure those things do. There are a lot of eyes on this thing to make sure it's doing what
 it's supposed to be doing. So I keep coming back to the demand profile. Is there something flawed
 in SHA-256? Or do you can tell these long-term stories where you say, okay, well, in the next
 10 years, we're going to have most of Bitcoin supply already in circulation. So you have 2%
 left. So now you're into the tail and if price is kind of slow and volatility dampens because
 the narrative is played out faster than you would expect. And mining incentives are then lower.
 Does that create a problem? You can always fork it, right? Can you imagine Bitcoin
 being fork into a prudent state mechanism? That would be something. Of course,
 the strongest of Bitcoin advocates will say it can never happen. And you have the fee
 structure in place that's working, right? So it shouldn't happen. So what probability
 would you put on that super low? 2%, 1%, I don't know what the number is. But even then,
 people are war gaming, well, what would we do in that scenario? So the community that cares
 about this stuff is quiet and super intense. They are on top of so many different things.
 It's really, really impressive. Yeah. So I keep coming back to the demand. If it's a
 demand-supply dynamic that's driving these things, I come back to demand sides going to dominate.
 Supply sides now determined. We understand that story very well. So scarcity value will
 be determined by demand. What concerns me is the scenario like gold in the 1980 when it peaked,
 and then you just had this like dead market for 20 years, 25 years, where price just trended
 sideways to downward. And so where do you think Bitcoin could be in 2030?
 I think that's a really, really important and interesting observation. So gold peaked in
 1980, and it wasn't until 2008 that we took out the high watermark. And my goodness,
 you could find every central bank and their uncle were sellers, right? How do we program
 sellers? How the world has changed? See, I see that as more. If that's the world we're in,
 it's because Bitcoin has accelerated to its endpoint. So that's a very high-class problem.
 The protocol will work. That then maybe you start to get the technology features
 thrown out, because it's like, well, we have this thing. It's valued at some large number.
 So I think of that in the store value context, like a very narrow store value context.
 Safety percent devaluation in the dollar. And I'm just throwing out a big number,
 because I just think it's a big number. Orderly, dollar still the reserve currency.
 We don't have to invoke all these crazy things to get a large decline in a dollar.
 By the way, in '07, the euro was trading above 150, and it was on the way to two.
 So not so crazy. So you get these meaningful moves. That's your nominal lift. That
 resets global debt markets. Over that period of time, you end up with
 a deficit profile that may be more sustainable. So over a 10-year horizon,
 where does Bitcoin trade as a store value asset? If it takes up half of the market share of gold,
 you're almost at a million bucks, a little bit less. $841,000 over the course of the next
 10 years. So a little bit longer horizon than what you're describing, but in the zip code.
 So you're in the zip code of a million dollars. And that would be with gold.
 They're not crazy assumptions. That's gold growing in 5% in real terms in the transition,
 which is ordinary in a nominal lift scenario. So it's outperforming inflation
 in real terms, bond your debt asset class in that world. So you start to then see store value
 as a separate category. People start to allocate to. Bitcoin ends up being the speculative component
 of that. So if Bitcoin can rise to half of gold's market share in that world, it gets you close
 to a million bucks. And then of course, the demand supply dynamics with gold will have
 a meaningful amount of supply over that period. It'll grow 2%, 1%, 2% a year over that period.
 So you have a supply dynamic in gold that's not married in Bitcoin. And that will only
 be accentuated in the longer term. And then after that, once you get that nominal reset,
 I think your 1980s example, I'm not saying we're going to repeat that scenario.
 But once you've gotten back to the point of orthodoxy or some version of it, then
 okay, store value is still a category. How much do you want to allocate to it?
 If bonds become attractive in real yield terms or industrial stocks or whatever it may be
 become attractive, because we've gone through this protracted period of orthodoxy or nominal
 nominal lifts or however you want to think about the returnments of some more sustainable
 macro profile, then of course, you're going to reallocate to those other assets.
 And that's the story of the '80s, when bond yields are 22%. I mean, you created financial
 geniuses who were just long bonds for a really long time and they traded like equities.
 It was a great trade. And there were some scary moments,
 1994 was one of them. But for the most part, if you were long bonds for chunks of time,
 you were in pretty darn good shape. So you're going to go through a different kind of
 cycle characteristic. So you have the structural feature and then you have the
 cyclo characteristics. I think that's a super high-class problem. That to me is more
 cyclical in nature than it is the usefulness of the asset. And then hopefully by then,
 there's some technologies that have been built. A lot of stuff has been built on Bitcoin
 that's shoveled already. It's just not a tracking activity.
 So if I understand correctly, what gives you comfort in that high-class problem not being
 the current situation is the fact that as we started the conversation, the North Star,
 we still have to anticipate the 50% devaluation in the dollar. That's what gives you the comfort.
 Correct? Yeah, correct. We're still going through this transition. And I hate to go back
 and reference the historical period because then they're always so different. We're
 not repeating the '70s. Obviously, it's different. But it's different in worse ways, too.
 Demographics now are awful compared to then. So I was as cheap back then,
 super expensive now. We've created generational assets and it's kind of sad.
 If you care about generations and if you think policy should have a long-term vision in mind
 and you thought price stability was the mechanism for the efficient allocation of
 economic capital, it has failed miserably. Now, it's not because price stability is a bad
 idea. It's the way we defined it is a bad idea. We defined it in this consumer basket blah, blah,
 and we didn't define it as financial assets. Well, why wouldn't you define these financial
 assets? If home price is quadruple, how is that price stability? For the next generation,
 they look out the window and say, "Great, inflation is 2% and I can't buy a house,
 buy a car, pay for my student loan." I mean, so you've created generational assets.
 And then what does the older generation do? They look at the younger generation and say,
 "I can't believe you live at home. Get a house. I can barely afford to pay in my college bill.
 What are you talking about? Get out of your basement. This is all I can afford."
 So that element of it, there's not been a lot of soul searching on that side from a policy
 perspective at all. They're very, very cyclically focused. Let's get inflation back to two and
 everything's going to be fine. It ain't fine. I mean, I don't know where, on what state of the
 world people can look at the world and say, "We've achieved price stability even if inflation
 was zero." If they change the target to zero, I mean, the price instability that has mattered
 to the structurally has been on the asset side. And it's really, really made enormous
 generational distortions. And that has to cleanse. The older generation has to be poor,
 and they can pick their-- it's not going to happen through taxes because there are ways to make
 sure it doesn't happen through taxes. But it's going to happen one way or the other.
 And the transfer of generational capital is going to be at a very different valuation.
 If I was to really simplify it, the bulk is for Bitcoin that it starts trading like gold from
 here onwards. Right. I think that's-- It breaks the correlation with NASDAQ.
 Correct. Correct. And then I think even with the NASDAQ correlation,
 so where I would stress test out a bit, China tech trades pretty well.
 So what is really the NASDAQ? It's that corporate dynamism is dead.
 So what happens when corporate dynamism is dead? The big incumbents win.
 Because if I'm a small startup, I can't IPO. The IPO will mark it was dead.
 So what do I do? I do a great job. And then who buys me? Google. Alphabet.
 So that element of the cycle, I think, gets called into question when their currency,
 which is their equity, gets called into question. And it's like, well, wait a minute.
 I mean, you're going to pay me in all this forward stock. And these ways,
 so it's not that great. So valuation may still be high, but I might be locked into a company
 that's going to lose a lot of value. So that's a very narrow subset of the aggregate market.
 So it could be that what we end up with is a rebalancing globally,
 because we know US stocks outperform to such an enormous degree alongside the strength of
 the dollar. So the natural sequencing of the events would be the nominal lift happens,
 all nominal assets rise in the US underperforms. And I think that's kind of in the story for
 year to date that's been the story. Hasn't been the story for all of the year.
 And then the question is, well, is Bitcoin a global asset? That's going to be the stress
 test for Bitcoin in that world. Because like, is it going to be part of this
 global rebalancing, or is it going to be a MAG 7 trade?
 It's like gold, right? Because gold was always outperforming in multiple currencies,
 except the USD, and then the USD took off. And are you seeing gold rising in all currencies?
 So you need to see something similar play out in Bitcoin.
 Yeah, I think that's exactly right. And again, then it comes back to,
 okay, where's that marginal source of demand? Yeah, that the Bitcoin Act exists, and that the
 details are this well detailed. It stuns me that it doesn't get more attention.
 I mean, if you're a financial performer, and you love the details, this is like gold,
 it's digital gold. It is such a great story. Because it's true, like they're laying it
 out for you. It's amazing. And it's so rich in history. And then you study gold certificates,
 and I'm like, how did those work again? And they became redundant, but they're still kind of there.
 And yeah, it's a fiat system. So the balance of payments entry US cleared through fiat,
 but it's capitalized with gold, and the gold is undervalued. And I had to work through
 these dynamics. And I was like, this can't be right. I can't have this right. And I must have
 gone through it 14 times. And I was like, oh my goodness, this right. That's how they do it.
 They just reset the valuation by by legislation, right? This is a legislator.
 And you just you go to a free flow goal. Well, that's that's a 1974,
 71, 34 moment. That's it. That's not saying it doesn't shift in that moment of time.
 Right. It's not that you get a level shift at that moment in time, but structurally, it's like,
 okay, like gold going up isn't so bad for the US. Bitcoin going up isn't so bad for the US.
 And this is part of the adjustment. And what did gold do in 1934? It ended up being the base
 unit of collateral after meaningful 70% dollar devaluation. I mean, once they once you had the
 gold, they're like, okay, we're going to devalue the dollar by 70%. You're still on a quasi gold
 standard. So the only way to get more fiat was to was to elevate the value of gold. So 70%
 devaluing, you can't even see it on a chart today, right? Because the charts are just
 the prices are so high. You can't even see it on a shirt. So you got to zoom in. You're
 like, geez, wait, that was 69% devaluation or revaluation of gold. Big move.
 So it's not going to be like that. You don't have a day where you get this level shift
 or the 1971 moment. It's not going to be like that. It's going to be a little more subtle,
 but this is the crumbs of the market. Gold's already telling you this, right? The strategic
 operators in the financial system are already telling you something is different. I don't
 know exactly what, but I know what I can hold. And I know where I can hold it. And I'm going
 to do that first, and that's cool. As it relates to that observation,
 specifically with respect to BTC, how do you know if the market is asleep and wrong versus
 one of those questions where given this information, given the tailwinds, we should be a lot higher
 already. And we're not, which is itself a signal. Markets always right. Markets always
 right. Like there's a there's a willing buyer and seller at every price, right? So
 I think it's super dangerous. Like, what do I know? I've got a lot of gray hair. I've seen a
 lot of cycles. I'm wrong a lot. As my colleagues, I'm going to test to firsthand. I'm longer.
 I'm wrong a lot. I'm enthusiastic. I'm going to keep digging. I'm going to keep pushing,
 but you have to approach this stuff with, like, I think Ethereum's a super interesting story.
 I'm very optimistic. Don't trade that way, right? So I think you have to respect the market at every
 price. So the fact that the market hasn't responded, that's what I dig into. So I have a bunch of
 market calls every morning. And I just poke around at the edges. And nobody's even looked at the
 details, right? They're kind of like, yeah. Or the look at Twitter, the social media has
 created a bit of a bit of a challenge here as well, because you want really, really smart
 people on social media that are sharing a lot. And then you can spend four hours in a debate on
 social media and learn nothing, but it's very entertaining. And they're really smart people.
 So it's like, hey, this is neat. And it's two people fighting about whether it's gold or
 Bitcoin, global Bitcoin. You're going to sell gold data. And you're like, it's all wrong.
 You know, just spend 15 minutes just reading about it. And that, I think, is lost somewhere.
 I think going, going to the source has been, has been lost. So I don't, I don't read too much
 into the fact that the market hasn't gotten excited about it, because the Bitcoin act,
 will it become lost? It's tough call, right? But the details, I think, will be foundational.
 So the details, I think, are foundational. And then, and then when I, when I talk to
 a bunch of people who care about this stuff, no one's really, no one cares about it. So I'm
 like, well, you know, it's interesting. But until anyone cares, they don't care. So I'm wrong.
 You know, it's observationally equivalent. I'm bullish. Price goes down. I'm wrong.
 I don't care if I'm smart. I'm wrong. So I, markets always right. I mean, I just think it's
 really, uh, uh, and you have to understand your pain threshold. And this is where leverage,
 I think, becomes critical, right? If, if you're super highly convicted and you want to lever
 up, you, you have, then you're renting the asset. You can be stopped out at any moment.
 And it'll never happen to you, but it happens to everyone. So the minute that you slap on
 leverage, I don't care what your LTV is, you are now renting that property. And so if you
 really want to be, if you, if you, if you have sufficient amounts of humility, and you really
 want to make the asset allocation, you're like, I'm going to ride the storm, then don't use
 leverage. And then you can ride it out. Then you can't make any excuses to say, oh, if
 only I had not been stopped out, I'd be rich. No, no, no, you chose to be stopped out.
 By the way, you structured the idea. Um, so it's, if these are all, these are all
 choices one makes. So I'm going to use leverage personally.
 For this purpose.
 Which brings me to ask, what do you think about microfinity?
 Oh, geez. I mean, uh, you can, how did, uh, how did sailor pull it? But if he was,
 he was, he was selling, he was selling one dollar bills for three dollars, right?
 Um, why wouldn't you do that trade? So, um,
 I think the
 super early in terms of the vision, super convicted.
 Um, I think his most recent address on the potential future of Bitcoin
 as a strategic asset in, in DC was, um, quite productive, uh, as it was, it was less
 narrative and a little more grounded in, in this future vision. Um,
 I, I, I think it's, I don't think they ever sell Bitcoin.
 So the
 sort of other word, they think the, it's an accumulation strategy.
 And if the market allows them to accumulate, they will.
 And to what extent do they don't know?
 I mean, they have a 21, 21 strategy and they're executing on that strategy way
 fast, 21 billion, 21 billion. They're going to issue it in the context of, uh,
 of, of, of preface versus ordinary, ordinary equity. And they're executing on that strategy.
 Um, so then what happens when, if and when
 the stock, the common trades below now.
 The financial incentive is to then sell the Bitcoin retired stock.
 Just doing the inverse strategy.
 Um, that'll be an interesting test.
 I think that's, that's the bit where I think that's really important for Bitcoin as well.
 And narrowly, like in the cycle.
 So,
 slowly diluted is trading a two times book still after this move.
 You volatility is very, it's very interesting to follow volatility markets.
 Well, like there's a ton of things happening in micro strategy,
 but a very simple, just, just 25 delta SKUs, right?
 One month, one month SKUs.
 At the peak, you were trading at peak bid for puts.
 So think, think of, think of how FX would trade.
 It's typically pro cyclical, right?
 When it grows up, there's, there's this skew bid for calls,
 because everyone's, everyone's trading the momentum.
 Options markets traded trade inversely.
 So what's happened more recently?
 We've now shifted to a bid to calls on micro strategy, right?
 And, and now you've shifted, uh, it's highest, highest of the year,
 even though the, even though the prices come off.
 So I pay attention to things like that and I'm like, okay.
 So now there's a cohort of that universe that's saying, okay,
 Bitcoin is bottoming.
 This thing's going to be a rocket ship again.
 So then the question is, if, if Bitcoin goes up 10x,
 and there's a natural reversion to nav, and that's very controversial,
 I'm not sure exactly why.
 If it's a Bitcoin holding company, now plus seems, seems, seems right.
 Maybe that's too simplistic.
 I've tried to, I've read all sorts of really complicated reasons
 as to why that's not the case because of forward,
 vol, and all of these things.
 I'm like, yeah, but once you, once Bitcoin is no longer a speculative asset,
 it's vol is going to compress, which we're already seeing.
 Its value is going to be a lot higher.
 And then it's going to look like gold ish, gold plus a bit.
 Well, in that world, then how does it, it's going to trade more like effects?
 It's going to trade more with the dollar and more with things like that.
 And if we're back to a world of orthodoxy, then you have upside,
 but it's not, it's not some enormous asymmetric volatility profile
 for potentially for decades.
 So nav plus seems, seem, and the plus ends up being,
 well, a bunch of people who couldn't buy Bitcoin otherwise
 are now buying it through this strategy.
 Maybe as everything goes digital, that goes away as well.
 So, so let's say, let's say you have a claim on Bitcoin.
 So if it's a claim on Bitcoin, you're, you end up trading close to nav.
 Where there's a forcing function is if a trades starts to trade below nav,
 you will have interest payments to make on, on your preferred structures.
 So you make those payments by selling Bitcoin or selling stock, right?
 So if you have, you don't have inherent cash flows to meet those payments,
 or you find an interesting way to generate yield on Bitcoin.
 Now, this guy is super smart.
 And he's, he's, he seemed, he looks around four corners, not once, right?
 So I would assume that he's, that, that day as a group,
 or thinking really hard as to what that stockpile can be used for,
 other than just a holding company.
 So it does become a Bitcoin bank, whatever that becomes, becomes something.
 We can generate yield on the Bitcoin there.
 If there's a capital market, if there's proper capital market structure
 that opens up in a repo market, then you can generate yield.
 Then that yield can be used to then, hey, for the yield on your,
 on your yielding security.
 So there are things that can happen like that.
 Now, that takes time.
 In the immediate instance, if, if, if you, if you were to trade below now,
 I think the dynamic is really interesting, really interesting.
 So that's going to be, that, that'll be, that'll be, that'll be,
 that'll be one thing to watch.
 So it is, look, it's the most important credit in the Bitcoin ecosystem.
 So you have to, you have to, you have to watch it.
 You just, and you have to pay attention to it.
 I look for patterns, and one of my favorite patterns is that
 Microstrategy plays a key role in signaling Bitcoin's price movements.
 In 2021, if you remember, Microstrategy peaked in February,
 while ahead of Bitcoin's high in November,
 creating a negative divergence as Microstrategy failed to make a higher high
 when Bitcoin made its high.
 In 2022, Microstrategy hit a bottom in May,
 and retested that level in December, while Bitcoin fell to a new low,
 marking a positive divergence.
 And now it seems Microstrategy may have peaked at $543 in November.
 And our thinking was, you know, at the Bitcoin top,
 it's going to come soon enough at a lower high in Microstrategy,
 which was the case in January, right, when BTC reached about $109,000,
 Microstrategy made a lower high.
 And we're just sort of creating another negative divergence
 and signaling, signaling a sort of significant market top.
 And so my concern is that I think Microstrategy is done for the cycle
 and seeing its average holding price around $62,000 or $66,000,
 the market is going to take BTC below that to create that anxiety that you talked about.
 And if that's the case, then,
 before we get to that North start from a sequencing perspective,
 I wonder if there's another sort of washout that occurs in the crypto ecosystem,
 where Bitcoin is actually the last man standing within the entire cryptoverse.
 Meme is going to be in December, you know,
 ETH Solana has done poorly this year, but BTC is still holding out.
 And it's the last asset that's holding out.
 And eventually it does plunge below 60, you know,
 towards by the end of the year as micro conditions change or whatever changes.
 But this is interesting thing happening between the way Microstrategy trades
 and then sort of BTC follows.
 I think that's very interesting.
 That's a very interesting pattern.
 I think it's very suit observation.
 I'm personally surprised it's traded this well.
 I'm fully delighted to be trading a two-times book given that given the move you've seen.
 And part of it, I think, is that you just,
 what options markets tell you in Bitcoin, it's all kind of boring and orderly.
 So it's a spot move.
 That's a simpler way to put it.
 All past moves in Bitcoin that we've seen have been more derivative-based.
 And this is a spot move, which is unique.
 So where does the spot move come from?
 Well, part of it comes from ETS.
 And part of the ETS flow came from carry trades against futures,
 which was the cash management strategy of many hedge funds.
 And that's being unwell.
 So that's part of what's happened.
 But I think the point you raise of the dynamic,
 like testing that dynamic, if we don't test at this cycle,
 we're going to test it at some point, right?
 It's going to happen.
 So you're going to see that test.
 So I think now is the time to think really hard as to what that test looks like,
 and to quiz people on it.
 Now, it's hard if you quiz the people inside of that ecosystem.
 It's not a welcome discussion.
 So you kind of have to find neutral parties to invite that discussion.
 But I do think the observation makes very stupid.
 And I think it will be tested.
 Whether it's this cycle, I tend to think not.
 But I do think it will be the option dynamics inside of micro-strategy
 tell me that that's not what people are worried about.
 If people were worried about that,
 I think you would have a massively negative skew in the stock.
 Now, that they're not worried about.
 It means that maybe they should worry about it, right?
 To your point, which I think is completely fair.
 But I think it is the right stress test to consist.
 So if you wanted to do a stress test, a cyclical stress test,
 that's a great one to focus on.
 Do you think talkers are the best way to express upside
 if the crypto will run is not over versus owning applications that matter?
 Another great question.
 I think the infrastructure inside of the crypto ecosystem
 are stunned by how poorly it trades, frankly,
 because there's some real things out,
 even things that make money, by the way.
 Like, do we go to permission decentralized exchanges
 where the permissioning layer is defined by the regulator?
 And as you get digital identity,
 that then separates good and bad actors and data,
 this all becomes possible.
 So Uniswap could be expected to be a leader in that area.
 Technology has been proven.
 They migrated to permissioning layers as well.
 People are testing using those layers, not super active.
 As a share of total crypto activity, decentralized exchanges
 are around 20% now, so they've taken share.
 So clearly, there's momentum there.
 So I consider that part of the infrastructure play.
 Like, there are even things that have the revenue profile
 have traded poorly.
 So infrastructure, I think, is super interesting,
 because you don't get user-- you don't get the use cases
 without the infrastructure.
 From a value perspective,
 this is where my macro perspective kind of falls short
 on the micro side.
 Is it a value trap, right?
 And say, well, obviously, optimism is great.
 And Uniswap's great and chain link is great.
 You have all this in circle.
 It's great.
 You have all this infrastructure.
 Obviously, it's all great.
 Because you're going to use it all.
 So many Microsoft, all these guys are going to use it.
 And they are.
 They love it.
 You talk to them.
 And you're like, why do you use optimists?
 It's great.
 Great to work with.
 Great tech.
 Data.
 Like, great.
 Why is it down 75% in the past year?
 It's so great.
 And they're like-- and they separate this.
 They're like, well, we don't own this.
 We're using the tech.
 And we're working with the people that are amazing.
 So it's super interesting feedback.
 And then you think, OK, who are the sharks, right?
 Who are the ones that are just strictly focused on?
 How do I maximize the monetization of these tools?
 And existing companies are pretty sharky.
 They're pretty focused on less on narrative and more
 on just, how do we win?
 You don't see Goldman participating endlessly in crypto
 Twitter and barking about this, that, and the other.
 They're awfully quiet.
 They care about this stuff deeply.
 Black rock cares deeply about this stuff.
 Their public pronouncements are pretty darn carefully
 calibrated, right?
 It's not.
 They're not participating in random debates.
 They're not distracted.
 It's focused on their vision, which is,
 the pie can be way bigger than we currently imagine.
 So I'm open to the idea, very open to the idea that as we converge,
 and that convergence can happen very quickly.
 Stablecoin then fit 21, right?
 That can all happen by the summer.
 Everybody thinks I'm crazy.
 I'm like, well, they've said out loud
 that they want this done by August.
 So if they can get stablecoin done,
 the next step is to 21.
 So let's see.
 Let's focus on stablecoin.
 Then when that's done, then we turn our attention
 immediately to the overall market structure.
 Once you clarified all that, then all of a sudden,
 so I was trading 24/5, so you go to digital rails,
 and that's with support of,
 I presume, the suitability of the world.
 Or, remember, it is.
 It's a liquidity provider in the background.
 But once you go to digital rails,
 then liquidity is 24/7 and global.
 You get that convergence happens quicker.
 And then we stopped talking about tokens and non-tokens.
 The same way that we don't talk about paper bonds.
 I always go back to Disney bonds.
 You had the coupons and they were art forms, right?
 And now they stopped those.
 And no one laments the end of the Disney bond.
 They're like, why would an earth?
 Would you care about that?
 You'd go on interactive brokers and buy the bond
 in two seconds and you're done.
 So that's what it's going to feel like for digital assets.
 It's just those line blur.
 And that's when you start to get the separation.
 Right.
 So when you start to get that separation,
 then all of a sudden you start to differentiate
 across these assets.
 Then it's not crypto and non-crypto.
 It's, oh, we have this universe of tradable stuff.
 How do we want to think of it?
 And how do we want to construct portfolios around it?
 And it could very well be that PayPal is a crypto company
 because they end up just being dominated by crypto growth
 and they're already regulated.
 So they've got all the regulatory stuff buttoned up and done.
 They've tested this stuff for six, seven years.
 They've integrated both payment stablecoin
 and yielding stablecoin into their infrastructure
 and they're just off to the races.
 So is that a crypto company?
 Is it a bank?
 What is that exactly?
 Right.
 So an investor shouldn't care what it is.
 An investor should be like, wait,
 how much did their margins go up by using that tech?
 25 times?
 I like that.
 So PayPal's cheap.
 No, I don't know if it's cheap.
 That's not my investment advice.
 That's just an investor can look out the window
 and make that declaration.
 So I think we have to stay very clear-minded on this.
 It's about technologies, over narratives,
 and about who can monetize those technologies.
 And you're going to see a lot of convergence
 between crypto and non-crypto companies as well
 because all the non-crypto companies were skeptics.
 The whole ride, right?
 JP Morgan has a layer two.
 It sits within JP Morgan, within their wild garden.
 And they were non-believers.
 And the vast majority of the financial universe
 were non-believers, including BlackRock back in the day.
 So that pivot is happening.
 So what are you going to do?
 If you're a non-believer and now I'm sitting there
 like, this is the practical reality.
 We've got to move.
 You're going to buy.
 You're going to buy as much or rent as much infrastructure
 as you can as quickly as possible.
 So I think that liquidity cycle is going to be enormous.
 And look, let's not forget we have $7 trillion
 in money market funds right now.
 You have a lot of cash on the sidelines
 for people who are mega bearish.
 And in a world of nominal lift,
 when the Fed's expected to cut rates to 3% as terminal rate.
 And we know there's going to be changes
 in the Fed board structure that can get you to 3%
 if not lower.
 And money market holdings are through the moon
 because everybody is waiting for the Armageddon.
 That cash gets put to work.
 I'm sorry.
 That's a misallocation of cap.
 That gets put to work somewhere.
 Maybe it's commodity markets,
 but it gets put to work somewhere.
 So it's hard to be super bearish against those dynamics.
 But anyways, that's one person's perspective.
 So let me ask you the question again after that perspective
 and see what services up this time.
 So do you think tokens are the best way to express upside?
 Companies that are going to monetize the warehouse.
 I think tokens will be part of that.
 Yeah, I think it's going to be the infrastructure
 and companies that are going to be using that infrastructure.
 And they won't be value traps as you hinted.
 Or you have to be more discerning, I guess.
 They might be.
 They might be.
 But I wouldn't do one without the other.
 If the value gets too low, they stop functioning.
 That's the part.
 No, they won't stop functioning because they're useful.
 So then somebody buys them.
 Well, where do they buy them at a premium?
 Right? They're like, we can't let this thing die.
 It's too good.
 So we're going to take it out, right?
 Because they don't have debt problems.
 They think we have to remember about the crypto ecosystem
 that I think is forgotten.
 What drives the company in euros, leverage.
 It's the same story as my trading story.
 They don't have any leverage, right?
 It's all equity.
 So it's pure capital.
 This is like old school markets.
 You know?
 So there's a very, very strong incentives to get the token value up.
 And that may require companies to then say,
 all right, you need an advisor.
 You need to restructure.
 Here's what we're going to do.
 Your token economics are all wrong.
 I don't know who structured this stuff.
 We're going to fix it.
 So I want to pick winners and losers.
 But I think the combination of those two,
 I think are really important.
 In the initial instance, companies are going to focus.
 Look at the success of the Bitcoin ETF.
 I mean, if it doesn't knock people over with a feather,
 it's a single asset ETF that is of lesser quality
 than its underlying instrument.
 And it's a home run, you know?
 Most successful ETF over that timeframe ever.
 Even inflation adjusted, it's just an absolute home run.
 So it tells you something, right?
 So what happens when BlackRock can do more, right?
 My goodness, like if I'd be super excited if I were them too,
 like we're onto something here, you know?
 Because the ETF wrapper is going to go away.
 So then BlackRock's future as an asset manager is on chain.
 Very clear.
 So are they crypto company?
 And they get it, right?
 Obviously, they may not have worked out every details
 to how much money they're going to make.
 But they see the direction of travel.
 And it's the same direction of travel that they lived with mutual funds to ETFs.
 And they're like, we're not going to be the old mutual fund guys.
 And we're fine.
 We're fine.
 We're not fine.
 Then they can't shift, right?
 So you have to have companies in that mix.
 And then if I think in the initial instance,
 companies are going to look at the infrastructure and be like,
 wait a minute.
 I can leverage that infrastructure to make way more money right now.
 And I know Ethereum's not going to make a ton of money on that.
 I am in the layer two that's going to monetize that.
 And eventually Ethereum will make money on that.
 Now, if everybody starts to understand that,
 then Ethereum can play the end to the end value.
 So it'd be crazy not to include Ethereum in that basket.
 The idea that, no, I know for sure that Ethereum's just going to be utility
 and BlackRock's going to monetize it off.
 That seems one step too far to me.
 But I do think companies are going to have an easier time monetizing this
 because they're already in that mindset.
 They wake up every day thinking, how are they going to make more money?
 What businesses are we going to operate to make more money?
 And what can we cut to make sure we make more money?
 I mean, it's just how it's built, right?
 And it takes a lot of time and pain to shift your mindset to that environment.
 And the crypto infrastructure player is going to have to shift to that.
 If much of crypto will be absorbed by the current financial system,
 does decentralization truly matter to the ecosystem?
 I have many good questions.
 I mean, I think it does matter.
 I think it's what differentiates Bitcoin.
 It's really the only truly decentralized asset.
 So in your quiet moments, so I own golden Bitcoin, just use me as an example.
 And your quiet moments, geez, it's much easier to hold Bitcoin.
 You know, physical gold is just a real pain.
 And then if you don't sell it back to the person you bought it from,
 you have to melt it.
 And then I've got to walk into a place with a bunch of gold.
 And everyone knows you're holding gold to your arm is shifting down.
 And then you're looking over your shoulder to make sure no one's following you.
 Because then you're going to get a bunch of cash or a wire to your bank or whatever.
 It's just better.
 And it is decentralized.
 And if you do need a decentralized tool, you have it.
 And the value of that decentralization, if it's capital controls, banking constraints,
 it's hard for people in the Western world to appreciate that,
 because they haven't experienced it as much.
 Italy in 1992, they had that bank holiday where there was a devaluation of their deposits
 to pay down government debt.
 So there are rare instances in mature economies where this happens.
 In those cases, most of it's through some form of currency devaluation rather than
 capital control and things of that nature.
 But for those that have experienced these things,
 decentralization matters a lot.
 So I think there's still going to be some core and decentralized tools for identity and
 and for safety.
 Now, then the question becomes, what do you build on it?
 So if that decentralized base layer has some features that we find really attractive,
 then kind of like the internet.
 So the internet has some regulatory boundaries, but it's decentralized.
 And we all gravitate to centralized tools.
 So we gift our information to Gmail, to Twitter, to you name it.
 And we should be paid for all of that.
 And in a digital asset world, micro payments will allow you to get paid for that stuff
 and allow you to have more control.
 And there are competing tools to Twitter that haven't taken off,
 and maybe they will, maybe they won't.
 What I observe is that people seem to self-select towards centralization.
 So even if the decentralized architecture is critical and some people value it more than others,
 above it, there seems to be this natural self-selection toward,
 I need an advisor, I need whatever it may be.
 And it kind of needs to be a person.
 And then I go back to the 2010 example with Bitcoin.
 People are still important.
 The algorithm is only as good as the code that we've written.
 So, and likewise, if AI turns on humanity, it's because we've coached it to turn on humanity.
 It's our problem, not an AI problem.
 So if that's our fate, so be it.
 That's what we've determined to be our fate.
 So likewise, as we automate, and we go to more and more automation,
 it's going to do the things that we tell them to do.
 So we tell it not to run over somebody crossing the street in an automated car.
 If somebody hacks in the car and says, "Run over the person,"
 they're going to run over the person and it'll be an awful experience.
 So we seem to have this desire for some form of centralization
 to guard against those risks.
 And even if those risks are highly unlikely to be realized,
 you will have that touch of centralization in the ecosystem.
 And that touch can be a big touch in the context of finance,
 because if you centralize around the brand, then that brand becomes critical.
 And then the question is, "Well, how many brands do you have?"
 You create these super finance companies
 that give you more control over your finances and more direction
 over where they go.
 But with the guardrail of being inside of a Blackstone or a Blackrock or whatever it may be.
 So I think the two will marry very nicely.
 Ethereum was key to the 2021 mania in DeFi,
 and generate millions and fees back then and ETH skyrocketed in price.
 And now we've seen the meme coin mania, which is boosted Solana.
 Daily trading volumes on Solana exchanges hover around $2.5 billion,
 the highest amongst all layer one blockchains.
 77% of that comes from meme coins.
 So where are we in the meme coin cycle?
 They're interesting.
 They dogecoin is a top 10 coin.
 I think it's down whatever it is, almost 50% for the year.
 So you have meme coins that have generated enough attraction
 that their next step is to then say, "How do we turn that?"
 The people that want to be part of this community, how do we then turn that into value?
 So I think the meme coin is I'm raising my hand because I want to be part of this club
 and the club is Pepe or Doge or whatever that club is.
 And what's the club, what's the cost of entry?
 Well, it's pretty low, right?
 And in the idea, I can add up to a large number.
 But the price of entry is pretty low.
 And then now I'm going to be on a very social media sites
 where I speak to a like-minded people who are self-selected to be part of this club.
 And it's easy for people to imagine this with golf clubs,
 which I don't belong to.
 And I look at the prices of these things and I'm like,
 how on earth would I pay that much money to hit it?
 And I can go to a public course, right?
 And I'm like, I'm no good anyways.
 What difference does it make?
 Well, then you're not part of that community, right?
 So it's not that there's not a precedent for these things.
 There's a clear precedent.
 Now, golf club has to maintain the lawns and whatever it may be.
 Well, they have to maintain their protocols,
 the main points have to do all sorts of other things.
 Now, the question is, can they turn that into something, right?
 Can you then say, okay, we have this interesting community of people
 and now we're going to use that capital to do
 or collective capital to then direct something that actually has value to the community.
 I think that's going to be the real, the big test for me in coins.
 If it's just, hey, here's a collectible, like a baseball card.
 You know, there's not going to be a lot.
 There could be a lot of interesting trading that happens
 and there could be a lot of interesting things that people choose to hold.
 But I think that that use case becomes a little bit less interesting to me.
 And it's more, how do I turn this into something
 where you're getting some value from it?
 And getting a community together is really, really hard.
 So getting that community together, it's tapping into something.
 There's something that's drawing people together.
 So you've drawn them together and they voted with their feet and their wallets.
 And yeah, excess trading and all this other stuff.
 Okay, that's a different, that's something totally different.
 But the stuff that sticks around is there for a reason.
 Now, can they monetize that reason?
 I think so.
 So I think named coins are permanent party architecture.
 So, for example, could Dogecoin become the mechanism
 whereby you're receiving micro payments for advertising on behalf of whatever.
 Whatever it may be, for sure.
 Why not?
 And when you wear your little Doge button, you're sending a seat
 and Doge has then created a licensing agreement with Nike.
 So you have this Doge hat with a Nike solution.
 Every time you wear that Doge hat and they see the Nike solutions,
 it has this trigger that then sends you a micro payment.
 And if you're at a basketball game and there's 22, 412 people at the basketball game
 and you're sitting in the front row, you're on TV, duh, duh, duh.
 Your micro payments going right to your wallet.
 I could see that.
 Why not?
 Why not?
 So I think they stuck around long enough that I think we have to be creative in terms of
 how you modify that.
 It'll probably take a new generation of people to run those things to be fair.
 But the community will, the community will figure it out.
 They're together for a reason.
 Is Sunana too exposed, given the share of trading volumes that are coming from
 meme coins and the creation of tokens.
 They are the, they are the meme coin base layer.
 So the, the, the, the, the bit that's always hard in these hype cycles.
 And look, to get anywhere interesting, you got to have a hype cycle, right?
 Otherwise you'll never get it.
 And then, and what's this, what's the downside of the hype cycle?
 Is that you separate the value from the non-value
 and it ends up being, yeah, here are a couple of things that are interesting and all this
 stuff isn't, right?
 So then if you built your base layer to support that, that's a challenge.
 So, and you look at the activity, just active wallets on Sunana at the collapse.
 So now, could it be used for other things?
 That's going to be for them to figure out, right?
 So can they then say, well, look, we've done such a great job with, with these things.
 That means we can do these other things.
 Sure. But at the same time, I'm like, okay, if you're an institution,
 and you're coming to the market, see, nobody wants to play with institutions
 because they're slow, right?
 They're like, oh man, getting institutional capital is just very hard.
 Got the relationship debt to trust you, obviously, like
 being a fiduciary, the root of fiduciary is trust.
 You know, fiduci, is the, the Latin root, right?
 Trust.
 So that takes time, takes patience.
 So the institutions, Sony's building on Ethereum, Microsoft building a layer two on Ethereum,
 BlackRock activity dominated by free outside of the ETF dominated on Ethereum, right?
 And they're open to other chains.
 So they said, hey, let's make it open.
 Let's see what wins, fair fight.
 So there's, now you have gravitational pull, where if you're an institution,
 you're like, well, I need to do something.
 There's there's wisdom in the crowd, what's the safest thing?
 Okay, I'm going to move to this year.
 So can, can one and displace that?
 Maybe I don't think so.
 It'll be really hard.
 So now what do you see with them?
 What do you see inside of Ethereum?
 Then you have folks that were setting up as,
 as layer one competitors.
 So with Ethereum, we're now saying, you know what?
 We're going to be a layer two.
 We're going to be a layer two within this ecosystem.
 And you've already seen some of that happen.
 So by self selection, not by, not voluntarily.
 So then do a lot of these layer twos or competitors to Ethereum.
 Then just say, our value maximizing proposition
 is to become a layer two to Ethereum.
 And we think our tech is better and we think our team is better,
 but institutions are migrating to Ethereum.
 And that's our best best best case scenario.
 So then you end up with this massive M&A, M&A cycle, if you will.
 All by self selection, right?
 So I think, I think, from an, if the next,
 if we're in an institutional phase, then it'll be much harder,
 I think, for salon and to penetrate that institutional phase,
 so the people that are attracted to Ethereum.
 Excellent point.
 There's some concern about grift in the crypto ecosystem.
 Like what do you make of the Trump and Melania
 token launches and some others that have occurred recently?
 Yeah, I mean, I think everyone's surprised
 by what they did out of the gate, to be fair.
 I think the president is word.
 He was called out and he said, "Look, I don't know that much about it."
 I believe that.
 I don't think he's nothing if not direct and clear.
 Look, as a general matter, if you think of this as a capital allocation exercise,
 so look, let's take a big step back.
 What's an example of a protocol that's done really well in the
 polymarkets?
 It's done really well.
 Very interesting information, and it's a trading market,
 however, you're gamifying finance at some level.
 When you start to gamify these things,
 people have a lot of time on their hands,
 and a lot of that time is being spent over computers
 and not taking in real world experiences.
 So one, behold, what's happening is that people take a portion of their capital,
 and hopefully it's a portion that doesn't change their life for the worst,
 but a portion of their capital, and they start facing things, betting on sports,
 betting on mean coins, data, and lo and behold, there's a cohort of people
 that see this as an opportunity to behave badly, and that bothers me.
 I mean, it does.
 I think if that happened to have loved one of mine,
 I'd be bothered by it.
 I don't like my parents or older.
 I don't like when they get AI phone calls with voices that are pretending to be my son,
 and they're trying to get money from my parents.
 Like, this is just bad behavior, right?
 Now, does that mean I don't like AI?
 I mean, I don't like the-- there's bad operators, right?
 So I'm agnostic to the technologies that general matter,
 and I think it's really important that we don't judge people's behavior
 just because of behavior that-- I'm not a gambler, right?
 But I'm a speculator, so then the counter would be, well, what's the difference?
 I'm like, well, anything in the future is speculation.
 You know, it's kind of like there's this class and equity investor that says,
 no, no, I'm an investor.
 I'm not a speculator.
 I'm like, really?
 So you know, you just-- you've just done the math on NVIDIA,
 and you just know, based on your forward profile,
 this thing is going to come on.
 Yeah, of course, you're-- and the higher the valuation,
 the higher the PE ratio, the further the horizon, you're speculating.
 The higher the PE ratio, the more you're speculating for crying out loud.
 So that's a fine line, right?
 And I make the distinction by professional decree,
 which is-- which of course is judgmental.
 So then somebody says, yeah, I'm a speculator, too.
 I think the bulls are going to win by 10 points today.
 And I'm going to-- I'm going to go on poly-- polymarket.
 And I'll be like, the people on the other side of that market
 are having a field day with you.
 Well, it's exactly why I don't take leverage,
 because I'm like, if you're going to-- you're going to enter that market.
 You can-- that's a zero sum game.
 So who are you trading against?
 And how do they stack up compared to you?
 And usually, the person you're trading against is an institution,
 and they're really, really good at what they do.
 And in blockchain world, it's all public information.
 So you've set a stop.
 They know it's there.
 The whole world does.
 So it's interesting.
 So the grif that-- it just comes with the territory.
 It's-- I think as we gamify things,
 it kind of comes with the territory.
 And I think we should be pretty harsh on it.
 Look, and this is where the more tools we can have
 to make sure that whatever we determine to be good and bad actors,
 that those tools can then transparently be shared,
 which the blockchain will allow us to do the better.
 The challenge with that is then we can get into this
 weird censorship regime, right?
 We're like, well, you're a bad operator.
 Obviously, you've done X, Y, and Z.
 So you've got to be careful.
 There's fine lines.
 And it's very, very difficult problems to solve.
 But there are some things that are just cut and dry.
 Like, we-- we-- and-- and, you know,
 you want to build a marketplace for people to--
 to act on their own choices.
 That's fair game to me.
 You want to mislead.
 I think-- I think we have rules around that.
 So I think we should be pretty harsh on-- on those things.
 And I don't like-- I've lived this-- this long plan by the book.
 I mean, I think it's-- I think it's just in people's
 best interest to do that.
 Short-term, short-term gain for long-term pain never wins.
 The 10 largest AI tokens have exploded by nearly 3,000%.
 That's 30x in the past six months.
 The virtuals protocol with its token virtual
 was the top crypto gainer of 2024, up and insane, 231 times.
 Now, agent creation has fallen off a cliff
 and token prices are down 80%.
 Does the AI agent narrative still have legs this year?
 Or was that explosive value just another bubble that's already popped?
 I actually don't have a great perspective on this.
 I followed it casually.
 But I don't have-- I don't have a great perspective on this.
 I do think the AI narrative broadly is, again,
 you get a hype cycle.
 So like, to get to anything good, you have a hype cycle.
 And then what's real and what's not.
 And I think what we found is, are there some real things in there for sure?
 The same way that pets.com didn't make it.
 But by golly, buying things for your pets online has been a home run.
 It is the way people do things.
 So right idea, wrong execution.
 Is it similar in the context of AI agent tokens probably?
 There's definitely some good in that.
 I haven't done deep enough into the micro details to know
 what's worth paying attention to what's not.
 In the aggregate, I think it's really important.
 So it was the tip of the spear for the hype cycle on the AI side.
 So I think on that side, it was very important.
 Does it all disappear?
 Here's the interesting thing.
 Because it's all equity finance, it doesn't disappear.
 This stuff hangs around.
 Hangs around in low values.
 And it tempts people to think,
 hey, geez, this thing traded really high back, man.
 Maybe it can go back.
 So it's not going back.
 And we have this in regular equity markets too.
 It's called pink sheets.
 And a bunch of brokerages won't touch this stuff
 because they're like, we're doing this for your own good.
 There are no pink sheets allowed.
 So it's interesting.
 We have this in regular finance too.
 So then when you get convergence, I think that's when you're going to get,
 that's when it's going to become a little more clear cut.
 You're going to end up with bifurcated markets as well.
 What is something you were sure about a year ago
 that is not proving out to be the case?
 [BLANK_AUDIO]
 Oh boy, what was I sure about?
 You know, I've been very dollar bearish.
 Was I sure?
 No, but I've been,
 the narrative I tell in the dollar has been in my mind
 for a long while.
 When I reflect on it, I'm like,
 well, if you executed it through gold, you feel like you are on the right track.
 And if you executed it through dollar union, you're like,
 what did I do that for?
 So that's definitely probably the biggest thing.
 Similar to the Bitcoin Act.
 When I look at the external obligations of the US,
 the net external obligations.
 It's not to say they have to matter at any point in time,
 but I'm certain that where policy has a blind spot
 is always balance sheets, because they're flow based.
 And we saw this with Japan for decades, you know?
 It's like, how do we get GDP higher?
 It's like you don't.
 Like your GDP levels are very high.
 So you travel in Japan, you're like, wow, this place is great.
 Like, because it's a high level of activity.
 And people are smart and the food's amazing and the infrastructure is great.
 And it's, but it doesn't grow.
 So then you talk generationally and they're like, this is awful.
 Like there's no dynamism at all.
 And it's because they had a balance sheet problem
 that they just kept glossing over.
 And then they kept pushing on streams to make GDP go up.
 And until they solved the balance sheet problem,
 GDP wasn't going anywhere.
 And demographics and all these other things.
 So the blind spots for policy, and my starting point,
 and a lot of this stuff ends up being policy.
 Blind spots are usually balance sheet,
 because most policy officials don't really care about them,
 because most of the time it doesn't matter.
 So if I have a relevant role in policy,
 and I have to manage meetings every quarter, well, it's great.
 The balance sheet story is interesting,
 but I got to tell a story in the next quarter
 about what's going on with the economy
 over and over and over and over again.
 So your mindset is automatically flow based.
 It's not structural.
 It's not long term.
 So then I gravitate to the balance sheet stuff,
 because I'm like, that's balance sheets never lie.
 The accumulation of obligations is there forever.
 And what do you do about it?
 And that takes me to the dollar side,
 and it's where the US differentiates
 with so many different places.
 And then the great thing for the US
 is that also binds the world together,
 because their obligation is somebody else's asset.
 And it's the US and the rest and the world.
 And the world in this case,
 China is a big part of it,
 but Japan is not non trivial.
 So what binds it together is, hey,
 it's our obligation, but it's your problem.
 Same mechanism that was described for the dollar back in 1971.
 Back then it was described in the context of flow dynamics.
 Now it's a balance sheet dynamic.
 So they want to model our core on a currency system.
 You have to show up for it.
 You know, the choice, you know,
 they're the largest.
 They're the world's largest debtor by a long shot.
 And the rest of the world is the largest predator
 by definition.
 So you better come to the table,
 or else they're just going to do something
 that they choose,
 which may not represent your interest.
 So that's probably the biggest,
 my biggest structural view has been that a dollar adjustment
 does not have to be disordered.
 Where I get attacked is, you know,
 a dollar can't go down 50%.
 There's all these things are going to go wrong.
 I'm like, what's going to go wrong?
 Like pricing will be higher.
 Price levels will be higher,
 nominal activity will be higher.
 All of these things will be different.
 It'll be much more expensive for Americans to travel abroad,
 much cheaper for,
 is it going to Japan now seems free.
 Right.
 So there's going to be adjustments.
 Rather, prices will generate these adjustments,
 but it doesn't have to be disordered.
 It doesn't have to be some vicious mechanism
 where things go buzz.
 And that's how you generate
 the revaluation of those obligations and assets.
 So it's incredibly effective.
 So I would have,
 I really expected those dynamics to play out sooner.
 I thought when the Fed started cutting,
 that would be an inflection point.
 And it hasn't.
 And I think gold has gone up for a different reason.
 I don't think it's going up for the reasons
 I thought the dollar would go down,
 otherwise the dollar would have gone down broadly,
 not narrowly.
 So I think I've been pretty,
 I've been pretty wrong on that.
 I think at some point I'll be right,
 but timing is relevant.
 Now I executed it.
 Okay.
 So I was okay on that side,
 but right for the wrong reasons,
 counting to finance.
 This is proving to be a difficulty here for many.
 And if we look forward,
 it rightly will remain somewhat difficult.
 What experience can you share from your own career
 or time with George
 that will sort of help us guide the path forward?
 Don't quit.
 Gotta keep at it.
 I mean, I think there's one tendency
 that I think is really hard,
 and we all do it.
 And we take it very personally.
 And with good reason,
 like I looked at my own performance this year.
 And of course I've made missteps.
 And when you're not performing,
 those missteps feel gargantuan.
 Now in a good market,
 when you're doing well,
 you make missteps as well,
 but they're just kind of glossed over.
 So I just think it's super important
 to just stick to your process.
 And if you need to pivot,
 pivot,
 if you need to add tools to your process,
 add tools that stick to your process,
 you didn't get dumb overnight
 just because it's just because it's a struggle.
 And then it becomes
 the philosophical part of it is,
 well, what do you think life is?
 Is it the struggle or the party?
 What's more fulfilling?
 I mean,
 I think it's a curse for everything to be easy.
 I can't imagine
 having everything at your fingertips
 and knowing the future perfectly.
 What a miserable world that would be.
 You know?
 Where's the juice?
 Where's the excitement?
 Where's the adrenaline flow?
 Like that is just,
 it is not interesting at all.
 So the interesting bit
 is that you don't know.
 And even when you're doing well,
 you don't know.
 You might be doing well
 for the wrong reasons.
 So I tip great.
 Look, with Mr Sorers in Mr Sorers' case,
 we ended up spending a good amount of time together.
 So my perspective on
 how we approach the craft
 is probably very different
 from the public profile.
 I'm super charming.
 Amazing sense of humor.
 And it's,
 go the onion,
 a remarkable amount of humility.
 And this is the piece that I think
 would surprise people.
 And it's just my perspective.
 People are welcome to their own perspectives.
 But what I saw was somebody
 who would argue that,
 look, over his lifecycle of investing,
 somebody had to win.
 Yeah, so how much of it was
 good luck,
 good fortune,
 good timing,
 accident.
 And I found my engagements with them
 were very open to those things.
 So don't overstate your success.
 Don't overdramatize your failures.
 It is a very difficult game
 or else everybody would win.
 Now keep in mind that
 that George Soros and Warren Buffet
 started their careers at roughly the same time.
 They have a very, very similar track record.
 And Buffet's
 value creation
 was many times greater
 because of the structure.
 Right?
 So even for somebody who's been as wildly successful
 as somebody like George Soros,
 he can look out at the window and say,
 well, geez, I structured it that way.
 That would have been smart, right?
 So you can dwell on that.
 You can dwell on that in the 70s
 and have been like, what am I doing?
 This guy's so much better than me.
 Why didn't I do it that way?
 And he's like, well,
 I've taken this path and was wildly successful.
 So it's always hard.
 And when you're doing well,
 just remember, it's always hard.
 And that's the part where
 where you'd never want to extrapolate.
 And in good times, the extrapolation,
 it's so tempting.
 And it's really bad.
 When somebody starts saying,
 how great you are and what a great call,
 you should immediately raise red flag.
 Because it's just implausible
 that somebody's going to win at this game
 by having a higher batting average
 on speculating in the distant future.
 It's just, you may have a very different
 mechanism for thinking about risks.
 So the more scenarios you can think about,
 the more things you can be attuned to,
 so that if they transpire,
 you can make that switch super important.
 But if you just blindly extrapolate
 because somehow you're crystal ball brighter,
 you're going to lose.
 You're going to struggle.
 And then the struggle will fix you.
 It'll bring back humility real fast.
 But don't quit.
 You just kind of stick to your process and don't quit.
 Love it, Marcel.
 Thank you so much for your time as always.
 Yeah, great seeing you in a great chat.
 You're doing an amazing job of
 directing the conversation with great questions.
 I really appreciate it. Almost.
