--- METADATA START ---
Show: Venture Unlocked: The playbook for venture capital managers
Episode: The New World of VC and Buildi…
Host: Samir Khaji
GUESTS: Billy Ilchep 
Guests: Billy Ilchep
Source URL: https://podcasts.apple.com/us/podcast/the-new-world-of-vc-and-building-a/id1535501313?i=1000711156413
--- METADATA END ---

1
Welcome back to another episode of Venture Unlock, the podcast that takes you behind the scenes of the business of Venture Capital.
2
In this episode, I had the pleasure of welcoming Billy Ilchep, founder and managing partner of Category Ventures.
3
Before starting Category Ventures in 2024, Billy has had a long history in technology, both in operating roles at companies like Fox and LiveBlock, as well as investing roles at firms such as August Capital and Two Sigma.
4
We covered a lot of ground during our conversation, including his inspiration for starting a new firm in this market and the experiences in his past that informed his true north.
5
We also spoke about the mass fragmentation of the venture market today and what it means to consistently win in early stage investing in a market that's so heavily crowded with dedicated seed funds and also larger funds who are active in seed.
6
I really enjoyed the authenticity of the conversation, and I hope you do as well.
7
Samir Khaji is the CEO and co-founder of Allocate.
8
Allocate and Venture Unlocked are independent of each other.
9
Any statements or references made by Samir or his guests regarding third-party investments or securities are solely their views and opinions and are not intended as investment advice or an endorsement of such parties or securities by Samir, his guests, or Allocate.
10
Allocate or its clients may maintain relationships with or investment positions and guests, third parties, or securities mentioned in this podcast.
11
This podcast is for informational purposes only and should not be relied upon as a basis for investment decisions.
12
Billy, it's great to see you and I'm glad we're getting this done finally.
13
Thank you.
14
Thanks for having me, Samir.
15
It's been up and coming for a few weeks now, so glad to make it happen.
16
Yeah, there's going to be a lot of things that we're going to unpack, but maybe we start off with your journey into technology and venture and a little bit about your background leading up to Category Ventures.
17
Yeah, I mean, I get oftentimes question from young people, how can I follow my path?
18
And my answer tends to be like, don't, because if I have to repeat my path myself, again, I don't know that I could.
19
It's a bunch of random events that got me to where I was.
20
Obviously, you have to kind of have a prepared mind for the next step in your career journey.
21
But my journey into tech was, I was very interested in tech at a young age before that's during the dot-com bubble that I got really excited about tech, started even investing whatever money I had at the time, which was very little into tech stocks.
22
I lost most of it.
23
But when I went to business school, I very much had this idea of getting into tech somehow.
24
I couldn't really get into tech out of the gate because I was an international student and there were very few tech companies at the time that were sponsoring international students other than maybe a few consulting firms.
25
And so I started my career actually in finance and that's what brought me to California doing tech investment banking, covering software companies and internet companies, semiconductor companies, all kinds of stuff at the time.
26
And that got me into San Francisco and Silicon Valley.
27
The first opportunity I had a few years later to actually lead finance and get in the working industry.
28
I took advantage of it.
29
I had gotten married and so I had more job flexibility.
30
And so I ended up joining one of my clients, Hewlett Hackard, in 2008 before the financial crisis.
31
And another one of my clients, Salesforce, called back a few, a year and a half later.
32
And I could totally see.
33
And so I joined Salesforce, which was actually probably the best thing that happened to me career-wise because Salesforce was such a relevant, impactful company in the ecosystem.
34
It was probably at the time when I joined in 2009 bigger than the entire SaaS ecosystem combined.
35
And so I was at the right place at the right time working for the right founder of the right company.
36
It was really an amazing experience.
37
And so I was leading there the strategy team, which included the investment arm of Salesforce, what is now Salesforce Ventures, as well as the strategy and M<unk>A function.
38
Great experience.
39
I had a couple of other operating roles after that.
40
I also won the execs at a company called LifeLock.
41
And then Box after that, before and after the IPR, I had invested in Box when I was at Salesforce, which kind of prepared me for venture in many ways.
42
But venture was not the end state.
43
It wasn't the goal.
44
I actually didn't know what I wanted to do.
45
Every single step in my journey was kind of being at the right place, right time, being prepared to take that next step in my career.
46
And when I started talking to venture capital firms, it turned out that a lot of the things I had done made me well suited to be a VC.
47
I joined August Capital in 2016, which was just an amazing opportunity and a great place for me to start my career adventure.
48
After August, I spent five years at Tucson Ventures, kind of continued on that journey, which kind of prepared me and led me to finally kind of decide to.
49
You mentioned a lot of different things there, and it does sound like you had a lot of serendipity throughout your career.
50
But when I talked to a lot of emerging managers, and I've had a lot of people that have started at Fund One or are on to Fund Two now, and all those experiences in some ways shape the mental model of the type of firm based on the observations working with founders, being in some cases within companies like you were at LifeLock and Box.
51
Maybe tell us a little bit about the true north and the gap in the market that you saw that you could fill with the firm.
52
Yeah, I mean, I think one of the reasons I am where I am today and kind of the mental model that I've built over time is my ability to pull from this wide variety of experiences I've had.
53
I've been an operator at like four different companies, and they all were great in some way and dysfunctional or challenged in other ways.
54
And then I was part of two different venture capital firms, very different again.
55
August Capital was a historic firm, truly historic.
56
You know, people that most people don't know the history, but like Benchmark and August came out of the same firm, TBI.
57
It was just an incredible firm in the 90s, first investor, only capital, only investor in Microsoft, and you know, Sirius A and Sell Microsystems and Compaq and Symantec into it.
58
Like amazing firm, great history, great legacy, very established.
59
But obviously, when you have that prestige and credentials, some other, maybe the hunger creep, the lack of hunger creeps in into your mindset and you your your drive kind of diminishes and so i learned a lot from that experience and then uh i joined two sigma ventures which was very much an up and coming from you know, a couple of people at Two Sigma were experimenting with this venture model.
60
And, you know, how do you build a venture capital firm?
61
So actually, I took the August capital lessons, tried to really help Two Sigma put that firm on the map, very much from building from the get-go.
62
And I think all of these experiences kind of led me to, you know, be fit more to start category ventures and definitely shape kind of how I invest, how I think about opportunities.
63
Whenever you've, and this was, you know, 2024, I think when you did the final close or single close of category, and we've been in a time where we haven't had a really blue sky year for a while.
64
So 2021, of course, peak of the market.
65
Since then, you know, the markets have been pretty choppy.
66
You raised the fund fairly quickly, which we'll get into a second.
67
But a lot of what I have seen over the last maybe 10 years is a lot of new firms coming to market.
68
I think I count over 2,000 seed funds.
69
And from an LP perspective, oftentimes it's very difficult to extract what makes a seed fund really successful over a long period of time.
70
And there's certain markers you can look at, maybe track record in some cases, like you had a track record coming from August, from Two Sigma.
71
But oftentimes, it's much more around the future view of is this team or is this person going to be able to execute?
72
And often it comes down to prepared mind, not just raising the fund, but thinking about building a long-term firm?
73
And how much of that was coming out during your conversations with LPs?
74
Yeah, I mean, I started out even this fundraise very much with an open mind.
75
The first thing I did before I even decided to do this was to go and ask for a lot of feedback from LPs that I had met over the years that knew me and would be honest with me about my strengths, my weaknesses, my ability to execute on this, but also other GPs who had gone down this journey, just so I understand how to think about it, my level of preparedness, etc.
76
And so I did a lot of homework leading up to it, which in some ways gave me the confidence to finally kind of go off the deep end and try to do this.
77
And when you start, you just don't know.
78
Unless you've started a fund before, a startup, like the first time, it's always, you just don't know what to expect.
79
And neither did I.
80
So I went very much with this into the process with this mindset of: I have a strategy, I see an opportunity, but I'm very much open for feedback here.
81
And that's how a lot of my conversation started.
82
The opportunity I saw in Venture was, you know, my impression of early stage venture was that it is highly fragmented, highly competitive, but also in some sense sub-scale.
83
There are hundreds, and you suggested even thousands of these.
84
And most people start a venture capital firm raising, you know, starting even with their own money, but raising small funds.
85
leveraging their expertise, their network, their insights, and kind of hope to find some good opportunities to invest and build their reputation and track record.
86
And there are hundreds of these firms, but they are subscale.
87
They're by definition subscale.
88
There are hundreds of firms that have 15, 30, 50, 80, even 100 million in fund sizes.
89
For the most part, they're subscale firms.
90
They can't really be around.
91
And my insight was even the more established seed funds kind of operate in a subscale way or inflexible way.
92
They're kind of stuck in their box, if you will.
93
We write two, two and a half, maybe $3 million checks into $3 to $4 million seed rounds, get 10 percent ownership.
94
This is what we do.
95
And my impression was early stage venture is just a lot more messy.
96
And you kind of need to meet the founders where they are for the amount of capital they are raising, for the opportunity they're pursuing.
97
And those things need to fit together.
98
And sometimes that may mean a $1.5 million pre-seed check into a $2 million or $2.5 million seed round.
99
But sometimes that may mean a $4 or $5 million check into $6,070, $8 million seed round.
100
You know, different companies require different amounts of capital.
101
And so try to build a venture capital firm that is super narrow.
102
So, I wanted to build a firm that is more welcoming and inviting and flexible, which is to say we're the firm that is only focused on enterprise software, B2B only, infra-dev tools and apps.
103
We're highly technical, we appeal to this technical founder profile, and we are very flexible.
104
We lead seed grounds, and we're very flexible with that means.
105
We can write a one and a half million dollar check, we can write a five million dollar check, anything in between whatever is appropriate for that opportunity and the needs of the founder to build the startup they're looking to build.
106
And I thought that there are just very few of those in the market that exist today, and I think founders are mostly lost today when they're looking to raise that sea ground.
107
You know, it's such an interesting thing that we should pull the thread on a little bit more because I do agree with you that, you know, firms that are raising, let's say, 50, 100, 150, you typically have fairly cookie-cutter portfolio constructions, i.e., at you know, 25 to 35 companies, 50% of the fund is going to be initial, 50% is going to be reserved for follow-on.
108
That leads to a check size of X and an ownership requirement of Y to be able to get to a certain exit ownership that kind of makes sense from a mathematical standpoint.
109
I had somebody on the podcast, Oren Zev, and when Oren was talking about his model, it was very open and kind of founder-based.
110
Like, what is the best opportunity?
111
I might do a Series B, I might do a Series C, could be a $3 million check, could be a $15 million check.
112
And for a lot of LPs, the question is: where is that?
113
How do you think about answering, you know, or how did you think about answering some of those questions?
114
Yeah, and I think Oren's model works for Oren because he has such tremendous reputation in the ecosystem and people seek him out.
115
But it is Oren.
116
It is hard to build a firm around this model, right?
117
An individual, Elod, can do this because he just has tremendous reach and reputation in the ecosystem.
118
But it's really hard to create a system around it that scales.
119
And so I very much, you know, even though there were a few conversations that kind of pulled me higher in the market, raise a slightly bigger fund.
120
You know, you've done a good job picking, keep picking, maybe you can do some seed and some A's.
121
That's what you've done most of your career.
122
Keep doing what you've been doing.
123
And the challenge, I think, with that strategy is, I think, well, first of all, it's really hard to lead rounds in kind of the alternative model.
124
I think you earn the right to lead through experience, reputation, and track record.
125
And that is especially pronounced at Series A, which is really the stage where brand and reputation, I would argue, matters the most to founders.
126
That is truly the first big round that puts you on the map.
127
And the reputation of the firm, you raise that round matters to.
128
You earn the right to do these types of deals.
129
You can't just show up and do these types of deals.
130
You can't go and compete with the best firms for the best deals just by having money.
131
And so my strategy was like, A, I saw an opportunity at seed.
132
I wanted to build this seed firm.
133
And B, I have the self-awareness and like having been in venture for a long time to know that you earned that right to do the series A deals.
134
And maybe one day in the future of Calgary, the firm can mature and become this like mostly seed with some series A's in between, kind of what Amplify has done.
135
They've done an extraordinary job.
136
But you do that when your brand and your reputation allows you to do that, not just because you can raise capital.
137
Well, let's talk about the product for a second, because I think that when you look at pre-seed and that $2.5 million round versus that $7 million seed round, which is going to invite other types of investors, especially some of the bigger firms, that will look at that and say, I can put in six of the seven or six of the eight, and it's going to be a valuation that might be 2x, which you're willing to pay, because it's optionality for them.
138
They want to get ones that then can go into Series A, Series B, Series C, and continue to pump capital in through the life cycle.
139
What is that, you know, almost that go-to-market motion that allows you to win in those type of rounds?
140
This is a great question.
141
And it is kind of the core belief that I have in founding this firm.
142
I think the reason often.
143
It's a lot easier to go to one of the big firms.
144
They're going to write a check.
145
To them, writing that $4 million or $5 million check is the equivalent of me writing a $200 or $250K check.
146
Who cares?
147
No big deal.
148
It's just a lot easier.
149
And that's actually an indictment of the seed ecosystem today and kind of the core pieces.
150
I think over the next five years, we're going to see a few firms like Category emerge that are actually able to offer that $4 million or $5 million check to founders.
151
So they don't have to go to the large firms.
152
And because the alternative today has been a cobble together syndicate of these smaller firms.
153
It takes time.
154
You need to align all of these smaller firms.
155
Nobody has actually meaningful ownership.
156
And so, but the belief I have is that these large firms are just not a good product for founders at seed.
157
You are probably, and one of the issues that I see with that model, you're probably, you know, they've fired an army of people.
158
They have a bunch of junior partners that you're probably talking to that may or may not have any meaningful experience investing or otherwise, that are dabbling in seed to build their track record and reputation.
159
They may or may not be there in a couple of years to support you.
160
Turnover is really high at those firms at that level.
161
If you're dealing with a senior partner, you know, they're busy, they're on 15 boards.
162
That $4 million.
163
It doesn't move the needle.
164
They don't have time for you, nor are they doing this investment with the intention of working with you and going through the nitty-gritty and finding product-market fit and kind of advising you and spending time with you.
165
And so I just think there's just no alignment in that model with founders other than the money part.
166
There's the signaling, there's the conflicts, there's the willingness to support you over time.
167
The reality is they're busy, they manage a lot of money.
168
They don't have the time to put together a bridge, nor would anybody else bridge you, because if you have one of these big firms on the cap table, why is anybody going to get in the middle of this and try to bridge you?
169
So I just think a new product needs to emerge in the market.
170
And you're starting to see that now: of seed stage-focused firms that have some scale and the ability to do these types of rounds, check sizes that are meaningful to the firm, that matter to them, and you know the partners are going to care about your startup and treat it with the care that they would if they had written a much larger check if you were at a big firm.
171
I guess the one counter that I just want to actually bring up, and this is through a conversation I had with another entrepreneur who actually took money from a large tier one sandhill shop.
172
And it was a seed round.
173
They raised $5 million.
174
The tier one put four, four million.
175
And their view was, as a second-time founder, we don't really need a lot of help to get from zero to one.
176
You know, it's fine.
177
Their view was: signaling is actually positive because having this big name can allow us to attract talent.
178
It can attract customers.
179
People know there's more cash behind us.
180
And yes, there's that signaling risk that they don't come into Series A.
181
Like, why didn't they do the Series A?
182
How would you maybe advise an entrepreneur that's thinking in that way?
183
Listen, when things go up and to the right, it's all good.
184
Like, it doesn't matter what you do or who you raise money from.
185
It's when things are kind of on the margin and take longer to get, find power market fit or find the monetization.
186
That's when things get tough.
187
So, you know, if you're optimizing for everything going up and to the right, then it doesn't matter who you raise capital from.
188
So do I think employees and customers, customers probably, to some extent they do pay attention who you raise capital from?
189
Yeah, maybe.
190
Maybe on the margin that matters.
191
But I don't think that outweighs the downside.
192
And the Series A challenge is not just the challenge of are they coming into the Series A or not.
193
The question is, are they leading it?
194
There's a very reputable firm on Sandhill.
195
We don't need to drop names.
196
But you can lead your seed.
197
And I'm seeing it at the A.
198
They're smart people.
199
The whole point of doing that seed was so they can deploy more capital behind it.
200
Like, why am I getting in the middle of this?
201
Like, the signaling is actually really strong.
202
And I've always had the mindset of, like, I'll make up my own judgment, but it's there, and that's the reality of it.
203
But I think the bigger problem is what I said earlier: like, people move on.
204
They just don't have the experience.
205
You're rarely dealing with one of the senior companies.
206
They're not your point person.
207
And so, if things are not up and to the right from the get-go, those types of firms move on.
208
Right?
209
They just move on.
210
Yeah, you lose the attention.
211
And it's human nature.
212
It only makes sense economically if they put a $4 million check out of a billion-dollar fund.
213
It doesn't move the needle.
214
It doesn't matter, right?
215
But it does matter to a $4 million check going out of a $160 million fund, which is very different.
216
And that's why they are going to get that senior attention.
217
But going back to this earn the right to win, right?
218
I think about this a lot.
219
You know, when I talk to venture investors, what does constitute the right to win in today's market?
220
Let's say there's 2,500 seed funds of which 20, 30% can actually lead deals consistently at seed.
221
What does it actually take to win?
222
Because it's brand, you know, like you've done this, it's founder references, it's the fact that you have some kind of value add proposition that's tangible.
223
What are the different elements?
224
And if you were to force rank those things that help you win consistently with the opportunities that you want to get into, what are those things that constitute that earning the right to win?
225
Yeah, I mean, I think brand and reputation matters.
226
Category doesn't have much of a brand today.
227
It's a new firm, right?
228
I do hope in five years Category is a name that most founders would recognize.
229
And so in the short term, whose brand is it?
230
It's probably my personal brand.
231
Like, you know, until Category becomes a household name, in this community, then it's mostly your personal brand that you need to leverage and your relevant experience or breadth of experiences that you can bring to the table.
232
You know, the team you've put together, like I alluded to this, I want every person on this team to be highly technical.
233
One of the things that I've noticed in the ecosystem is there are actually very few firms that you can go to who you know that every person on the team is actually highly technical and will get it.
234
And admittedly, I'm actually not an engineer by background, but I do want that firm to be everybody on the team is highly technical so that we can connect with this highly technical founder and provide them with a different experience.
235
You know, references matter, how you treat people matter.
236
Leaving founders with a positive experience every time matters a lot.
237
I actually track how many founders I pass on that connect me to another founder.
238
That matters to me a lot.
239
I can't invest in every idea or every founder I meet with, but I can be nice to them and give them meaningful feedback that leaves them with a positive impression that would allow them to still recommend me to their friends.
240
That actually is really important to me.
241
Kindness is free.
242
Like, it doesn't take any additional incremental effort.
243
And so, those are like all the little things you need to do to win thee.
244
And there's other activities, community events, like other things you can do to drive awareness.
245
But I kind of go back to like the core values behind which I founded the firm: authenticity, like be a real person, be a human, treat people with like respect, give them meaningful feedback, teamwork, like build a firm where we can all work together, collaborate, be in the same office, you know, make decisions together, kindness, and finally, intensity.
246
You know, I will win.
247
I'm a super competitive person.
248
I want to win at whatever I do.
249
And you need that drive and intensity to be successful in this business.
250
It's very competitive.
251
And so I think those core things, if you can put them together, I think it actually can provide founders with a very different experience than what they would get at other firms.
252
When you think about all those elements, which is really serving the founder consistently by adding real value that helps them scale from when you invest to when they get to the next phase and so on and so forth, oftentimes it's not just about you providing, but providing sort of this united way across the entire organization.
253
You've hired a number of people within the firm.
254
And I love asking this question because I think it goes back to the ethos that I asked about earlier, which is when you're bringing on people, you mentioned one of the non-negotiables is we want them to be technical, but there are also personality non-negotiables that you're filtering for.
255
Maybe talk a little bit about that and how did you actually filter for those things during your interviews with some of the people that you brought on?
256
Yes, I do care about the intention both, right?
257
Back to the values, teamwork.
258
I'm not looking for people that are looking to mark an opportunity in the CRM as their own.
259
Like, that's not what we're trying to do here.
260
We're trying to collaborate to help each other make a better decision.
261
If we make a better decision, we win.
262
It's not about you making a good decision.
263
That matters over time.
264
I'm evaluating my team on kind of how they make decisions and how they think about opportunities.
265
Are they building their track record, their reputation with founders, et cetera, or their ability to attract the founders by teamwork, being authentic, treating founders with the respect they deserve, leaving them with a positive impression, giving them good feedback.
266
And yeah, that requires a certain personality type to want to work in that type of environment and system.
267
And also, like back to the intensity, you can't do away without that.
268
You need a certain level of also intensity to be successful.
269
So I'm looking for those components in every person I bring to the team.
270
And as you think about this, this goes back to all of these folks, you know, looking at the end of the day, get into great companies, help those great companies, and then provide what we hope to be a great return for your limited partners, right?
271
Which in the LP world, getting a 3X net and hire is where you want to be as a venture firm fairly consistently.
272
Not easy.
273
In fact, even during the 2010s, that was like top 20%.
274
And in down markets, that's even sometimes less than that.
275
How do you think about building that probability of getting those top-end returns?
276
So I think about a venture fund as like, yes, there's the winning, which is once you find a deal that you really like, did you earn the right to win?
277
But you have to see the deals, you have to make the decisions.
278
Can you break down each one of those and how you think about building an edge in when it comes not just to the winning, but the sourcing and picking?
279
Yeah, I had a conversation with a couple of friends at larger firms a few weeks ago.
280
And the question one of them posed was: what do you optimize for when you hire sourcing, judgment, or winning and winning?
281
Those are the three components.
282
And my answer was: if I can have two out of the three, I will pick sourcing and winnings.
283
And judgment is last.
284
And the reason I say that is there are several reasons.
285
Number one, judgment is really hard to filter for.
286
You know, it takes sometimes a decade for you to know if somebody has the judgment.
287
And so judgment is really hard to evaluate in the short term.
288
What I tell some of my team is like, your judgment at this point in time is what it is.
289
You can't do a whole lot to make it better today.
290
Over time, you can learn, your experience matters, all that.
291
But at this point in time, it is what it is.
292
The things you control today are sourcing, your input, the hard work you put into it, connecting with founders, every interaction you have with a founder, being purposeful in how you're building your brand, your application, how you engage with the community, events, content, whatever, all the things you can do on the sourcing side, and then the winning, which is kind of the history of all of your work that gives you then the right to win.
293
And obviously, initially, it's a team sport, like we win as a team, but that's how I think about it.
294
And so those are the things I think are most important to any investor when they're starting out.
295
I agree with you.
296
And I do think it takes a long time to know if there's, I mean, certainly people like Doug Leone, Mike Moritz, you know, folks like that, very clear, incredible judgment.
297
They know how to do this, right?
298
They've done it for a long time.
299
But it could take 10, 12, 15 years to know whether there's false positives or negatives in somebody's track record to determine their judgment, especially at the early stage when so much is so opaque in terms of the business model, the human being that you're investing.
300
But going back to that decision part, because that is so difficult to filter for, you've built your own pattern recognition throughout your time at Two Sigma, August, even before that.
301
How does that translate into helping other investors across, you know, around the table with their own judgment?
302
And also the other way around, you know, people that are maybe more junior in their roles, helping you sort of refine and get better.
303
How does that work from a decision-making process within category?
304
On my personal judgment, again, I have the luxury of drawing from 20 plus years of just being around the ecosystem.
305
You know, I became a VC nine, ten years ago, but you know, I probably made more investments at Salesforce than I'll make as a VC.
306
So, I was very active on the investing side and also personally as an angel.
307
And so, you kind of have seen that whole you've made every mistake in the book, you kind of can learn from it.
308
In many ways, I think good judgment is what's exciting, but also kind of how to stay out of trouble.
309
A lot of things seem exciting for Leon, and just being able to kind of get to the crux of a bet you're making, understanding what is the bet you're making, asking the right questions, and understanding: is this a bet worth making?
310
It's not a formula, right?
311
I can't even articulate it with words because it's not a formula.
312
You draw on a lot of experience and analogies, but it really boils down to kind of clarity of thought, understanding of the bet you're making.
313
There are bets that didn't work, that if I have the opportunity to make over again, I would.
314
And there are bets that I've even like asked my former partners in the past, I'm like, Yes, this worked, but it was a bad deal.
315
They're like, What do you mean it's a bad deal?
316
It worked, like, would I make a lot of money on it?
317
I'm like, but it's a bad deal, we shouldn't have made this investment at this time.
318
So, I think that intellectual honesty, sometimes it works, but it was actually a bad investment.
319
Understanding that I think is really important.
320
And so, back to teamwork, the reason I want this teamwork is I do want that thinking to like for me to be able to infuse the team with that type of thinking.
321
But also, it comes from some humility on my part in that I don't pretend to be the smartest person in the room.
322
I don't pretend to know it all.
323
You know, this is hard.
324
And so, the more kind of feedback you can get that can help you inform your decision, the more interesting different perspectives you can hear around you, the better decision you can make.
325
And so, this is not to be confused with like groupthink or like consensus-based decision-making or any of that, but it is to say it's really valuable to hear like a different look, a perspective coming from a very different angle or experience.
326
And I think that's how you make good decisions.
327
Speaking about decisions, and you mentioned this, and I love the intellectual honesty of even looking at deals that work and say, Maybe we shouldn't have done the deal.
328
And conversely, deals that didn't work well, that you said, Well, I'm glad we did it and it was the right thing to do at the time, and consistently testing those things.
329
But one truism, like a lot of people say, is a truism in venture, is like a lot of the great opportunities are not obvious and they can be non-consensus.
330
But for a lot of younger investors that we see, and I'm sure as you continue to build your team, even though venture is a risk-on category, people tend to go and risk off when they start the careers.
331
They want to go with the known, you know, the areas of heat where it's like, you know, today.
332
You have a nice TV PI by your name.
333
How do you combat that, I guess, internally in terms of making sure that people are working on things independent of what the rest of the market is doing and really just getting into things that you have the highest conviction in?
334
That's a really good question and a hard question to answer.
335
So, it is true that some things are not really not obvious at early stages.
336
You know, a great opportunity can hit you over the head 10 different ways, and you still don't see it.
337
One example is: I saw Sneak Seed, I saw it at NPA, and I just didn't get it.
338
I just could not get it.
339
I saw it multiple times.
340
And so, you see that, but man, sometimes it just hits you as, and it's as obvious to you as the light of day.
341
And that, again, is this is what makes venture so fascinating.
342
Why was it obvious to you and not anybody else?
343
The, you know, the investments I made that became like really big success stories, I didn't perceive as taking great risk.
344
I didn't perceive it as non-obvious.
345
To me, it was obvious, like they should exist.
346
It absolutely makes sense.
347
But I think it goes kind of back to the different, the prepared mind, the different experiences you have, and things you've seen over the years that kind of put you in a position to recognize.
348
So I think that's kind of how I think about it.
349
I think if I look back on my career, one thing that seems interesting to me is oftentimes you see something interesting and you have to do a lot of work and kind of working to get excited about it.
350
And you're doing research and you're trying to like get over the line.
351
My experience is every time I've done that, I have probably made a mistake.
352
Probably made a mistake.
353
The things that in my track record, in my history, that have done the best are the things that I knew within 20 minutes I really wanted to invest.
354
It's really fascinating, which is not to say I don't continue to try to do the work to get excited and see something that's not obvious that other people don't.
355
I do, I try, but if I look back, it was the first you had me at hello, is kind of where most of my success comes from.
356
That's interesting.
357
And this, in some way, might preempt the final question I was going to ask you around: you've had the experience of being at two different firms now running your own fund.
358
And venture is one of those apprenticeship businesses you learn along the way.
359
You make mistakes.
360
You learn from those mistakes, hopefully.
361
And over time, you start to build your own way of doing things.
362
Is there something in particular that you wish you knew when you first started that you know now?
363
It's an interesting question.
364
When I was talking to another firm before, several firms, but one firm I came really close to joining before I joined August Capital.
365
And I remember talking to the partner at that firm, and he was telling me, listen, first six to 12 months, just sit around, do nothing, learn, observe.
366
And when I joined August, I had a conversation with David, and David said, you know, listen, your ideas, your energy, your perspective is most fresh now.
367
You will never have this type of perspective and point of view that you have now.
368
He said, just if you see something you get really excited about, just go invest.
369
And I will never forget that because it empowered me, I would say, in the first six months of my career in my job.
370
We saw three of the, you know, the three best apps companies in the last decade.
371
I fortunately missed one of them.
372
But, you know, if I was at another firm, I probably would have never had this opportunity.
373
And so, you know, one thing I've learned is like when you bring people on board, empower them.
374
Their ideas are most fresh today.
375
The network is most fresh today.
376
And so empower them because you may miss, we don't get compensated for, you know, housing on a bunch of mediocre deals.
377
We get compensated for investing in the great ones.
378
And so if you see it, you've got to empower people to on the table and act on connection.
379
But the second thing I would say is.
380
Most of the time, we try to convince ourselves that something is a great idea.
381
But any venture, like you may see two great ideas a year, and it makes you feel like a bum, like you're not working hard enough to see more great ideas.
382
But the reality is there are only 10 to 20 great ideas every year.
383
And so you do want to act when you see it.
384
And oftentimes, you know it very quickly.
385
You just need to have the conviction and the guts to be honest with yourself and say, This is the one, let's go.
386
That's great.
387
Well, I really enjoyed the conversation, Villy.
388
This was great and appreciate the insights.
389
And again, congratulations on launching the firm.
390
I know the story is long from being written, but it's been great getting to know you and really appreciate you coming on today.
391
Thank you, Samir.
392
Thanks so much for listening to another episode of Venture Unlocked.
393
I really hope you enjoyed our conversation with Villy.
394
To learn more about him or Category Ventures, go to the Venture Unlock's Substack page at ventureunlock.substack.com, where you'll find more details on the episode as well as past episodes.
395
To get all future podcasts right to your mailbox, sign up through Substack or go to Spotify or iTunes and sign up for our mailing list.