--- METADATA START ---
Show: N/A
Episode: The Knowledge Project Podcast:… - The Knowledge Project with Shane Parrish
Host: Shane Parrish
GUESTS: None
Guests: None
Source URL: https://podcasts.apple.com/us/podcast/the-knowledge-project-podcast-trailer/id990149481?i=1000706863519
--- METADATA END ---

 (upbeat music)
 - In a world where knowledge is power,
 this podcast is your toolkit for mastering the best
 what other people have already figured out.
 Welcome to The Knowledge Project, I'm Shane Parrish.
 How do the world's top performers, CEOs, investors,
 best-selling authors make decisions
 that lead to extraordinary outcomes?
 Each week, I sit down with people at the top
 of their game to uncover the mental models
 and insights that separate the best from the rest.
 If you wanna think clearly, make better decisions
 and unlock your full potential, you're in the right place.
 - Rich is when you have enough money
 to make your mortgage payment, make your car payment.
 Wealthy, I think, is when you have a degree
 of independence and autonomy.
 - It's okay if it doesn't resonate with your grandmother.
 - If I'm selling a specialized thing to specialized buyers,
 it just needs to resonate with them.
 - We are the first endeavor in history to focus on
 trying to rejuvenate every organ of the body.
 - It all started with Farnham Street.
 An anonymous website I created while working
 at a three-letter intelligence agency.
 I wanted to uncover timeless wisdom
 and distill principles of clear thinking
 from across disciplines.
 As it grew, it attracted more attention
 from top athletes and world-class decision-makers,
 becoming a go-to resource for those who think differently.
 - That success led me to opportunities I never expected,
 private conversations with some
 of the most exceptional people in the world.
 - You have to extend yourself not just through space,
 but through time, into the future,
 announcing something that might or might not work,
 you don't know yet, that's what makes it creative.
 - Thinking about what you need and starting there,
 as opposed to just like, okay, what should I avoid?
 - Millions of downloads later, in over 174 countries,
 the goal remains the same.
 - Bringing the highest density of wisdom per episode
 of any podcast in the world.
 - What's really important is, what are the risks?
 What can go wrong?
 How bad could it get?
 And how do we deal with it if that happens?
 And so we spend virtually all of our time
 on downside protection.
 - No amount of computers and artificial intelligence
 and space technology and nanotechnology and biotechnology
 and all of that is gonna stop continuing warfare.
 - We're economic injustice,
 because those are born in the human heart.
 - The rigid business plan, it doesn't usually work.
 That ability to go with the flow,
 you need to have that business shape.
 - The difference between those who consistently succeed
 and those who struggle, starts with how they think.
 Subscribe now to The Knowledge Project,
 because the conversations that change your thinking
 will change your life.
 (upbeat music)
 [BLANK_AUDIO]
