--- METADATA START ---
Show: N/A
Episode: The Vibe Coding Landscape 2025 - The AI Daily Brief (Formerly The AI Breakdown): Artificial Intelligence News and Analysis
Host: Unknown
GUESTS: None 
Guests: None
Source URL: https://podcasts.apple.com/us/podcast/the-vibe-coding-landscape-2025/id1680633614?i=1000708883831
--- METADATA END ---

Today, we are mapping out one of the most exciting parts of the AI field. It is, of course, the vibe coding landscape. The AI Daily Brief is a daily podcast and video about the most important news and discussions in AI. Thanks to today's sponsor, Splitsy.com and Plum. And to get an ad-free version of the show, go to patreon.com/slash AI DailyBrief. Hello, friends. Welcome back to the AI Daily Brief, and happy weekend. You know what it means. Since it's the weekend, we are doing a long reads episode. Now, this one will be a little bit different because it's not long reads in a normal constructed essay sort of format, but this is derived from a written piece written by a frequent guest of the show and my collaborator at Super Intelligent, Newfar Gaspar, who recently published the State of Vibe Coding Tools in May 2025. I will say as a caveat to this one that this really does benefit from visuals, so I'd highly recommend you watch this either on YouTube or on Spotify. Newfar laid out vibe coding tools across two quadrants. On the X-axis, things run from no coding skills required to professional developers. And on the Y-axis, they run from complete applications in the top end to specific UI components down at the bottom. The four quadrants then were zero-code app builders, building full apps with no code required. These are the lovable bolts and softgens of the world. And that, of course, is in the no-coding skills and complete applications quadrant. In the no-coding skills and UI components quadrant is design to code, which are visual builders with a UI focus. So that's things like v0, framer, and Galileo. Next, in the quadrant that is UI components and for professional developers, NUFAR has the AI coding assistants. The developer tools, the code help, this is, of course, cursor, windsurf, et cetera. And then finally, in the quadrant that is complete applications but for professional developers, she calls this AI power development with professional tools and full projects, and includes companies like Devon and Factory. Now, the point of Newfar's piece is that these tools are becoming ubiquitous. She writes: Vibe coding tools are revolutionizing software development by letting users describe what they want in natural language and having AI write the code. As of May 2025, the landscape includes 20-plus major platforms ranging from no-code app builders to AI-powered IDEs, collectively representing a fundamental shift in how software gets built. And actually, zooming all the way down to her conclusion, she writes, The Vibe Coding Promise: The core revolution isn't just about writing less code, it's about democratizing software creation while simultaneously making professional developers exponentially more productive. Whether you're a founder with an idea or a senior engineer managing legacy code, there's a vibe coding tool that can accelerate your work today. If you are a regular listener at all, you'll know that this is one of the most exciting areas of AI to me. About a month ago, I did an episode with Riley Brown called How Vibe Coding Unlocks AI. And really, the idea was that this is the use case of AI that creates opportunities to tap into every other use case. And that is both on a people level, where we get more empowered to build things that solve our problems by being able to add code to the equation, but it's also about how AI can build itself the tools that it needs to go solve problems. AI's ability to code unlocks other capabilities of AI in ways that are incredibly powerful and recursive. There's a clear difference in who's using what. Non-technical founders she sees using tools like Lovable Bolt and SoftGen. Designers, she sees using tools like vZero, OnLook, Tempo, and Galileo. Professional developers are, of course, using Cursor, Windsurf, and Claude Code. And enterprises are using some combination of things like Gemini Code Assist, Tab9, Factory, and Blitzy. In terms of understanding how this spectrum breaks down, let's start first with the no-code full-stack builders. Nufar writes, database authentication, and deployment. They have one-click deployment to production, built-in integrations with things like Superbase, Firebase, and Stripe. The AI itself handles DevOps and complexity, and it's perfect for MVPs and prototypes. So, taking just the example of Super Intelligent, we have all shifted a set of behaviors to these vibe coding platforms. At this stage, you're basically not allowed anymore to discuss a product or feature idea. You have to just prototype it. In fact, literally as I am recording this, I have Lovable going in two different windows building two different things: a vendor onboarding flow for our marketplace, as well as a new type of agentic matchmaking. I'm then going to go share this with our engineering team, who's going to bring it over into their AI-enhanced IDEs of choice, which in our case is Cursor. I think that the one thing that I wanted to note is that while yes, these tools are absolutely perfect for MVPs and prototypes, they are increasingly being used for more than that. We're seeing agencies being built around companies like Lovable and Bolt that are taking things all the way to full production. Plus, from a trajectory standpoint, these tools are going to get nothing but better. So, while yes, at this stage, many of the use cases are going to involve MVPs and prototypes, I do not think they're going to be stuck in that area for long. The next set of tools are the design-first tools. Nufar writes that they bridge design and development, converting mock-ups or descriptions into code. She says they're ideal for designers who want to create functional interfaces without diving deep into programming. Their key capabilities including Figma or screenshot to code conversion, visual editing with real-time code updates, a focus on front-end UI generation, and export-ready components. One of the things that I think is interesting about this category is that it shows how roles are changing and adjacent roles are getting blurrier. Designers are, I believe, not going to just sit around waiting for engineers to code up their designs anymore in quite the same way. Instead, they're going to at least take first passes at bringing their designs to life. And in many cases, these roles for certain types of companies will just converge. Today's episode is brought to you by Blitzy, the Enterprise Autonomous Software Development Platform with Infinite Code Context. Which, if you don't know exactly what that means yet, do not worry, we're going to explain, and it's awesome. So, Blitzy is used alongside your favorite coding co-pilot as your batch software development platform for the enterprise, and it's meant for those who are seeking dramatic development acceleration on large-scale code bases. Traditional co-pilots help developers with line-by-line completions and snippets, but Blitzy works ahead of the IDE, first documenting your entire code base, then deploying more than 3,000 coordinated AI agents working in parallel to batch-build millions of lines of high-quality code for large-scale software projects. So, then, whether it's code-based refactors, modernizations, or bulk development of your product roadmap, the whole idea of Blitzy is to provide enterprises dramatic velocity improvement. To put it in simpler terms, for every line of code eventually provided to the human engineering team, Blitzy will have written it hundreds of times, validating the output with different agents to get the highest quality code to the enterprise in batch. Projects then that would normally require dozens of developers working for months can now be completed with a fraction of the team in weeks, empowering organizations to dramatically shorten development cycles and bring products to market faster than ever. If your enterprise is looking to accelerate software development, whether it's large-scale modernization, refactoring, or just increasing the rate of your STLC, contact Blitzy at blitzy.com, that's B-L-I-T-Z-Y dot com, to book a custom demo or just press get started and start using the product right away. Today's episode is the only AI-native workflow builder on the market designed specifically for automation consultants with all the features you need to create, deploy, manage, and monetize complex automations. Features like one-click updates that reach all your subscribers, user-level variables for personalization, and the ability to protect your prompts and workflow IP. Make your life easier, your clients happier, and your business thrive with Plum. Sign up today at useplum.com. That's Plum with a B forward slash NLW. I also think that this is a huge growth category. I have been extremely intrigued by Pietro Shirano's teasing tweets, like this one where he describes hundreds of full web apps all rendered live on a single canvas, delivering the same performance you'd expect from static images. Coming soon to the best design tool near you. Vibe designing is going to blend with vibe coding in a huge way, and I am absolutely here for it. Next up are some of the giants in this space, the AI-enhanced IDEs. These have obviously been some of the biggest categories for both investment and acquisition interest, and NUFAR describes them as professional developer tools that augment traditional coding with AI assistance. These integrate into existing workflows and help with everything from autocomplete to complex refactoring. Now, in this space, we have incumbents and upstarts competing at the same time. Obviously, GitHub Copilot has huge traction, particularly inside of enterprises, but the boundaries are absolutely being pushed by Cursor and Windsurf. And for those who are not constrained by whatever legacy systems their enterprises have, they are the choices to jore. Nufar lists the developer benefits of these platforms as multi-file context awareness, autonomous task execution, local code security options, and IDE integration. She calls these the cutting edge, AI agents that can plan, implement, test, and deploy entire features or applications with minimal human oversight. Factory AI stands out, she continues, with its enterprise focus, offering droids that autonomously resolve tickets and incidents. Here she calls the quote-unquote game-changing features to include multi-step planning and execution, automatic testing and debugging, cross-file refactoring, and production deployment capabilities. Now, when it comes to which of these tools to use, it's going to be largely driven by use case and technical capabilities. For non-technical builders, she recommends things like Lovable, SoftGen, or Bolt. For designers, obviously, it's something like vZero. Professional developers are using Cursor or Windsurf. For enterprises, it's where it gets a little tricky. In fact, we're about to look at what Newfar thinks are predictions for what might happen next. But one that I think is absolutely going to come to the fore is Vibecoding infiltrating the enterprise. Enterprise software engineering departments have been surprisingly hesitant to adopt some of these tools. Some of the reasons aren't great and just have to do with institutional inertia, but mostly, there are some really good reasons that the tools that everyone else is using aren't necessarily designed for big, complex legacy code bases that have lots and lots of different contributors. However, that honeypot is so big that you've got companies who are willing to dive in and deal with the complexity that that takes. Factory AI was already mentioned. Lindsey.com, who you hear about every day as a sponsor, is also focused on this space. They effectively deploy swarms of agents to work on enterprise code bases. And part of the reason that I was so excited to have them as a sponsor is that I think that this category is incredibly important for enterprises going forward. Now, for Newfar, in the next six to 12 months, she thinks we're going to see more specialized vertical solutions like healthcare and finance, better mobile app generation, improved AI reasoning for complex architectures, more specialized vertical solutions like healthcare and finance, improved AI reasoning for complex architectures, and, and this one I think is very important, better mobile app generation. This is about to be a huge trend, I think. I mentioned Riley Brown's Vibecode before. They are explicitly building the app that builds mobile apps. And although it's not out yet, people are getting very excited in the beta. We've also got Roark, which is doing something similar. You describe the mobile app you want to build, and it builds it. Talking to Riley about Vibecode, their whole thesis is that the current generation is a mobile-first generation, and so it just makes sense to build tools that build mobile apps as the starting point. I did want to call out one other short-term trend that I'm seeing. I think we are very likely to see social and community-driven versions of these Vibecoding platforms. It is incredibly fun to create, and it would not at all surprise me to see companies try to really double down on that community aspect. Think about all the things that would be helpful from a Vibecoding perspective if you had a community that was actively engaged: getting people to look at what you've built and give you tips for improving it, providing reviews of what you've built, or even helping you take things all the way and turning your projects into actual companies. We're already seeing a little bit of this, with dev.fun being a crypto version of it. And I wouldn't be surprised if one of the other big players in the Vibecoding space decides to go this direction as well. Moving back to Newfar's predictions, in the medium term, which she sees as one to two years, she thinks that AI will handle entire sprints autonomously. There will be visual debugging with AI assistance, cross-platform development from a single prompt, and AI-driven code optimization and refactoring. In the long term, which is two plus years, she sees AI architects designing entire systems, automatic scaling and performance optimization. I think that NUFAR is absolutely directionally correct, but I think if anything, we might see a roughly 100% compression of her timelines on this. Like I said at the top, these tools are incredibly hot. They have an extraordinary number of users who are pushing for new features. The startups that are building them are super engaged. The big companies like OpenAI, who announced their own sort of vibe coding tool on Friday, are also super engaged. It just feels to me like this is going to be one of the biggest areas of AI focus, and I think we're going to see things evolve extremely quickly. I will leave you with this. If you have not yet tried out one of these tools, go to softgen.ai. Honestly, try any of these tools and just ask it to build something. One of the things that captivated me about AI when I first started messing around with Midjourney a couple of years ago was that feeling of being an actual friggin' wizard and speaking things into existence. Vibe coding takes that to absolutely the next level, and it will, I believe, change how you think about how you do your job, almost no matter what job you do. Anyways, big thanks to Newfar for always writing great content. And thanks, of course, to you guys for listening or watching. Until next time, peace.