--- METADATA START ---
Show: N/A
Episode: The Substack Playbook: Inside â€¦ - The Generalist
Host: Mario Gabriele
GUESTS: Chris Best, Hamish McKenzie
Guests: Chris Best, Hamish McKenzie
Source URL: https://podcasts.apple.com/us/podcast/the-substack-playbook-inside-the-%24650m-platform/id1805868710?i=1000706513743
--- METADATA END ---

 if you allow technology to be applied,
 it makes things better and cheaper.
 As everybody gets richer, as more things happen,
 the things that are not touched by technology
 just get more expensive and take up a bigger and bigger
 share of the economy.
 Then you can ask, okay, so what is AI technology
 gonna do to media?
 - It says, AI slop and AI entertainment takes over
 the entertainment piece of media.
 The part that gets more valuable is learning what to want,
 learning who you wanna be in curating your information
 sources and in that, humans play an outsized role.
 - If we could go with the 10 to 20 year timeframe,
 I would say this is gonna be looked at as the chaos era.
 This is a moment of transition between major periods
 and technology and culture in the media,
 creating a ton of volatility, a ton of power redistribution
 and chaos that is ultimately gonna lead to a new
 kind of order and something better.
 But in the moment, chaos messy as hell.
 (upbeat music)
 - Hey, I'm Mario and this is the Generalist podcast.
 You might've heard the saying, the future is already here.
 It's just not evenly distributed yet.
 The mission of this podcast is to host deep conversations
 with the founders, investors and thinkers
 who are living in that future, to help you see it earlier,
 understand it better and capitalize on it.
 Today, I'm speaking with Chris Best and Hamish McKenzie,
 Substack CEO and Chief Writing Officer.
 Substack is arguably the most interesting media company
 in the world right now.
 It's become a transformative force in the landscape,
 creating a new economic engine for culture.
 With over 5 million paid subscriptions
 and tens of millions of active readers,
 Substack is building something
 that I consider truly revolutionary,
 a platform where creators own their work
 and make money directly from their audience
 through paid subscriptions.
 In our conversation, we talk about Chris' grand unified theory
 for how AI will influence content creation,
 the inside story of Substack's clash with Elon Musk,
 and why the ceiling for great writing and culture
 might be much higher than we're currently imagining.
 Given my work at the Generalist and love for writing,
 these are all topics that I was extremely excited
 to talk about with Chris and Hamish
 and loved hearing their perspectives.
 You'll walk away with practical insights
 about the new media landscape,
 creator economics, AI,
 and what great information and writing
 looks like in the 21st century.
 This is a new podcast, so if you like it,
 I hope you'll consider subscribing
 and joining us for some of the incredible episodes
 we have coming up.
 Now, here's my conversation with Chris Best
 and Hamish McKenzie.
 This episode is brought to you by Vanta.
 Warren Buffett once said it takes 20 years
 to build a reputation and five minutes to ruin it.
 For today's digital companies,
 those five minutes have shrunk to milliseconds.
 This asymmetry is why trust isn't just earned,
 it's demanded.
 If you're building a business,
 you likely know that proving compliance is needed
 to win bigger deals, enter new markets,
 and deepen trust with customers,
 but that it can cost you real time and money.
 By automating up to 90% of the work needed
 for SOC 2, ISO 27001, HIPAA, and more,
 Vanta gets you compliant fast,
 opening doors to next level growth opportunities.
 Not only does Vanta save you time,
 it also saves you money.
 A new IDC white paper found that Vanta customers
 achieve $535,000 per year in benefits,
 and that the platform pays for itself in just three months.
 Over 10,000 companies like Atlassian, Factory,
 and ChiliPiper use Vanta to manage risk
 and prove security in real time.
 My listeners can get $1,000 off Vanta
 at vanta.com/mario.
 That's v-a-n-t-a.com/mario for $1,000 off.
 This episode is brought to you by Brex.
 Fred Adler, the influential venture capitalist
 of the 1970s, was known for displaying decorative pillows
 and his office that featured a signature business philosophy.
 Corporate happiness is positive cash flow.
 In today's post-serp environment,
 Adler's wisdom feels particularly relevant
 as founders need to make every dollar work harder.
 That's exactly what Brex delivers.
 Their modern finance platform was built specifically
 for startups like yours and designed
 to help extend your runway when capital efficiency matters
 most.
 With Brex, you get global corporate cards
 with up to 20x higher credit limits
 and no personal guarantee required.
 Their banking solution has no minimums
 and no transaction fees, while letting you earn high yield
 from day one with same-day liquidity.
 Best of all, Brex knows you were born to build,
 not juggle spreadsheets and finance tools.
 Their AI-powered platform brings cards, banking,
 expense management, and travel all in one place.
 Simple, scalable, and designed to get you back
 to what you do best, building.
 More than 30,000 companies, including one in three
 US venture backed startups,
 trust Brex to help make every dollar count
 toward their mission.
 Join them at Brex.com/Mario.
 Chris, hey, Mitch.
 It is fantastic to have you on here today.
 Thank you so much for being here.
 I am so excited to talk about sub-stack
 and the future of media, things that all three of us
 love to chat about.
 And maybe to begin, I'd love to just, you know,
 start with a little introduction about sub-stack,
 the vision behind it, the mission that you're building,
 the scale it's at today.
 Because I think that, you know,
 I would imagine almost everyone who's listening
 has interacted with sub-stack in some way,
 but they may not know it.
 So, Chris, maybe you could start us off.
 >> So sub-stack is a new media app.
 And, you know, the big version of this,
 we see it as we're building a new economic engine
 for culture.
 And so if you're a, somebody who has something to say,
 a writer, a podcaster, a video maker,
 a publisher of any kind,
 sub-stack is kind of like your personal media empire
 in the palm of your hand.
 It lets you do all of that, own your work
 and make money through pay subscriptions.
 And for, if you're somebody who, you know,
 wants to subscribe to the best media in the world,
 sub-stack is a tool that lets you do that.
 We've been growing for years.
 I think we can announce this is going to be,
 I think, relatively new in this era
 is that we've passed 5 million paid subscriptions.
 >> Oh, wow, amazing.
 And, you know, tens of millions of,
 tens of millions of people actively
 subscribing to sub-stacks.
 >> Amazing.
 Well, we're going to talk a lot today
 about the future of media and the future of sub-stack.
 But to begin and set the stage a little bit,
 maybe we can go back in time and hear a little bit
 about how sub-stack started and, you know,
 why this was a mission that spoke to you.
 And I know that, you know,
 Chris, you were sort of the person who looped it in
 with Hamish, so I'll let either one of you jump in there.
 But yeah, I'd love to hear a little bit about that.
 >> Well, I'd done another company before this.
 It was a messaging app called Kick Messenger.
 I met Hamish and Jay, who's our other co-founder there.
 And after I left that, after working on it for eight years,
 I was taking some time off.
 And I've always been an avid reader.
 I've always believed that the things you put into your brain,
 the things you read and listen to and watch
 are not just a form of entertainment.
 They shape how you think, how you see the world.
 And ultimately who you are.
 And so great media is valuable.
 And the people who make great media
 are basically heroes.
 Not to, you know, put too much shine on you, Maria.
 But I think the thing that you're doing here,
 yes, it's a podcast, yes, it's a newsletter,
 yes, it's a media business.
 But I think the stuff is important, right?
 It changes how people think.
 It changes how they understand the world.
 And yet a lot of the current internet, you know,
 this is in 2017, didn't feel that heroic.
 The state of the legacy media was kind of, you know,
 was then and remains in shambles.
 We have these massive, ad supported social media platforms
 that have tremendous business models
 and work really well for them and for advertisers,
 but are not necessarily aligned with the people
 making or the people consuming the culture.
 And so I went, I was taking some time off
 after Myles Company and I was like,
 I should be a writer, how hard could it be?
 And I was writing, you know,
 you have that good programmers hubris.
 You're like, I know how to read, I know how to type.
 It should be great.
 And I actually started writing what was gonna be
 like a essay or a blog post or a screed,
 kind of just like complaining about all this stuff.
 I was like, wha, wha, wha, you know,
 the newspapers are dying and maybe Facebook is bad.
 Blah, blah, blah, blah.
 And I sent it to my friend,
 Heyman, she's actually a writer.
 And he let me down gently.
 Or as he tells it, he gave me some notes,
 basically saying, yes, it's okay, listen, we know.
 It's 2017, maybe the legacy media business models
 are in trouble.
 This is not the shining new insight you imagined it is.
 But the more interesting question is,
 let's say all of that is true.
 What could you do about it?
 Like, what would, how could this be different?
 And that sort of like became a, that conversation
 turned into the original idea for sub-stack.
 Which is actually the same idea we're pursuing today.
 And it was both like, you know, a very grand idea.
 And it's a little bit like, you know,
 a little bit grandiose, we're kind of like,
 ah, we're gonna reinvent media on the internet
 and make a thing for culture
 and like put people back in charge of their media diets
 and blah, blah, blah, blah.
 But also we were like, okay, but there's this
 initial incarnation of this thing
 that people would want tomorrow that we could build.
 That's kind of like this very simple humble seed
 of that thing, which was, let anybody start
 a paid email newsletter.
 And that was both a very sort of like practical,
 doable piece, but it was also like the thread
 at the start of this grand thing.
 You know, Hamish, Chris mentioned that you had
 worked as a writer, you were a writer, you were a journalist
 for many years, you've written books of your own.
 When you look back at sort of the media landscape
 that Chris was writing his screed about in 2017,
 if you had to trace back the sort of original sin,
 like where do you see that coming from?
 Like, you know, if you could, you know,
 whisper in the years of a young Mark Zuckerberg
 is there something that you could have, you know,
 set us down a different path or at the, you know,
 the creator of the very first listicle.
 Where do we start?
 - Yeah, it all ended with the black and gold dress.
 No, the-- - Yeah, exactly.
 - Well, I think these problems were not to do
 with any one actor or anyone, the intention
 of any one person who started a new business
 on the internet.
 I think there are, these are structural things.
 The internet came in and essentially laid waste
 to old business models that had traditionally
 supported media, and so it started
 with Craigslist kind of, you know,
 they took out the classified business
 that newspapers relied on so heavily.
 And then Google and Facebook came along
 and YouTube a little bit later.
 And just were much better vehicles
 for the kinds of advertising that used
 to support other media businesses,
 you know, even more so than classifieds.
 And so it was always gonna be difficult
 for the traditional media businesses
 to recover from that.
 And it wasn't because Mark Zuckerberg was even
 was there a hell-bent on destroying the media
 and building something in his image.
 And then later on, actually, the streaming services
 have come along, they're making it even harder
 for the existing television businesses,
 the TV news business, cable news, et cetera.
 So these old business models that were designed
 in the 20th century, maybe even the 19th century,
 have been attacked from multiple angles,
 and by some of the greatest media technologies
 that the world has ever known.
 And they're great in the sense of like,
 extremely effective, they've got goods and beds
 and hyzomos with them.
 And so, by the time 2017 rolled around,
 the physical illness that traditional media had,
 had was already well and truly set
 in the body of that whole institution
 was getting weaker and weaker.
 And social media, which was physically very strong,
 had the business model that was really, really working,
 working maybe too well, and bringing in billions of dollars
 for those companies that got to own the benefits of it,
 was sort of introducing to a world
 or starting to reflect kind of a mental illness,
 where people were struggling to understand each other
 and seek to solve important problems together.
 And instead were kind of engaged in this fight for attention,
 which the incentives of social media tend to encourage.
 And so, the things that you would do
 on these major news feeds,
 whether it's Facebook's or Twitter's or Instagram's
 or whatever, were nothing to do with seeking truth
 or looking to understand each other,
 but a lot to do with reactivity
 and like really heightened emotion
 and kind of divisive type of engagement
 and community type stuff.
 So by the time 2017 came along,
 things are looking pretty grim
 for anyone who was considering a future in journalism
 or the media or as a writer.
 And no one was looking at writers
 as a like potential customer base
 to hold up the next era of giant technology companies.
 Yeah, that didn't, I imagine, feel like an obvious bet
 for anyone.
 But I really love what you guys are saying around
 that it felt like such a big idea in some ways.
 You're playing with the grandest possible canvases
 of billions of people connecting around culture
 and creating it together.
 But also, you managed to find this thing that I would guess
 felt really small to a lot of venture investors
 when you started pitching it.
 And so I'm curious both how you landed on like
 that first sort of insight around,
 no, it should be helping newsletters run subscriptions
 and two sort of like, yeah,
 what the conversations were like with those first VCs.
 Well, there were existing examples
 and there were, you know, there was Ben Thompson
 who had built Stretachery.
 There was Andrew Sullivan who'd done the Daily Dish.
 And so there were some existing examples of people
 who had, I guess what we considered
 kind of shockingly good businesses.
 Like, you know, we did some napkin math and guests
 that Ben Thompson was making over a million dollars a year,
 you know, from his bedroom in Taiwan
 writing this email newsletter.
 That's amazing, but it's like still too,
 you know, you saw the early signs,
 but that's like, you know, just two folks
 at the very tip of the spear
 and it's not like there are huge businesses, right?
 But here's the thing is if when you're starting out
 making something very ambitious,
 you try to make something for the entire eventual audience
 of it, that usually doesn't work.
 It's pretty hard, sometimes you can get really lucky
 in that that universe exists.
 But in my estimation, it's almost always better
 to start with something that's like
 the greatest thing in the world
 for like literally three people.
 If there's a way that you can then take that
 and expand it to be 10 people and then 100 people
 and then 1000 people, et cetera.
 'Cause if you start with something that's kind of like
 pretty good for a million people, it goes nowhere.
 And it's not just like, we didn't just sort of like
 take this on faith.
 We were thinking about, we were thinking through
 why this was happening.
 Why is it that people are,
 like, why would people pay for one of these things?
 What are the currents in the world
 that are causing people to realize that they're, you know,
 their money is no longer their scarce resource,
 their attention is, they're not happy
 with the media diet, they're getting the deal
 that, you know, creative people across, you know,
 the whole internet is getting worse and worse
 in a bunch of ways.
 Like, you have to be able to look at a thing
 that exists today that some people will buy,
 but then also try to like accurately
 or like make a bet, I should say.
 You have to make a bet on where the winds are blowing,
 like where the world is going.
 And if you can get both of those things right,
 I think that's how you make change.
 - Hamish, was that something that felt like it landed
 with the first sort of cadre of investors
 that you spoke to or did it actually take like, I don't know,
 a lot of matchmaking to find folks
 that really resonated with that?
 - Yeah, first we had to make it land with a few writers
 and I remember in the early days, we were saying,
 you can, you subtract to start
 your paid subscription publication.
 And it was just confusing enough
 that people weren't quite getting it.
 It was like, oh, do you mean like an academic journal?
 Do you mean like a magazine or something like that?
 And we're like, no, no, no.
 - You wouldn't know what a sub stack was yet, exactly.
 - Yeah, the idea of a sub stack
 was waiting to be introduced to the world.
 And we eventually decided to simplify it and just say,
 well, it's just like a paid newsletter
 because there's this email element
 and there's a web element,
 but you don't have to like know all the bells
 and whistles before you start.
 And once we settled on the idea of saying,
 we make it simple to start a paid newsletter,
 it meant we could go to all these other writers
 who are already doing newsletters on services
 that were designed for email marketing in many cases
 and not for writing, not for editorial.
 And say, come over and use this thing, it's better.
 And you have the option to get paid
 by direct subscriptions.
 And we think this model can work really well for you.
 And once we had that story now,
 then it's a story we could tell investors
 and some immediately got it and saw the potential.
 And some were like, who's gonna pay for newsletters?
 How many banned Thompson's are there in the world?
 And I think, you know, you don't need every investor
 to say, yes, you need some people to get it.
 And a couple of people early on,
 I remember Mike Kearns at Churning Group
 was one of the early believers
 and Andrew Chan became an early believer later on.
 And that's all we needed.
 And yeah, I think it feels like a small thing,
 start a paid newsletter, you know,
 get paid for writing stuff from the audiences
 who care enough about it to pay.
 But that is actually a major thing.
 That is a big transition, the idea that you can have
 recurring payments for this and work
 that you consider important
 and that the people who can get it
 will like not just sort of begrudgingly pay for that,
 but they'll be happy to pay for it.
 They'll be in like, in this game with you.
 And once that becomes possible and proven,
 then a whole all sorts of things are newly possible.
 - There's a version of sub stack I could totally imagine
 that is like a really much smaller,
 but sort of thriving indie business.
 You know, sort of like the widgets to tip a creator
 or buy a cup of coffee or you know,
 whatever those things are.
 - We totally should have done that.
 - Yeah, it sounds like it would be so much easier.
 Was there a moment where you had to like kind of kill
 that, you know, lighter weight version of things
 to really pursue the mission?
 Or was it always just, you know,
 no, we're going as big as we possibly can with this?
 - You know, I'd had sort of the taste of this thing
 at my last company where we kind of got to that,
 you know, hundreds of millions of people using it.
 And it, I'd say that experience maybe
 increased my ambition of what's possible.
 And so for me personally,
 the fact that I felt like we were onto something
 potentially quite big and transformative
 was the thing that made me want to work on it
 in the first place.
 You know, if we, I, if somebody wants to make a tool
 for tipping on websites and it's a cool lifestyle,
 that's a really, it's a great thing to build.
 It's interesting, it's fun.
 I could see why that would be a worthwhile thing
 for somebody, but it wasn't, that wasn't the,
 it wasn't what made me, you know, pour my,
 pour my life into this thing.
 - For me, there's kind of like a moral impulse as well.
 Like if we felt like, if this could work for Bill Bishop,
 the first ever self-stack writer,
 that's really interesting.
 If it works at Daniel Lavery,
 a totally different sort of profile to Bill Bishop,
 who's writing for librarians and not business people,
 that's even more interesting.
 And then maybe this could work for lots of writers.
 Maybe this could work for all types of creators.
 That's super interesting.
 That's kind of like profound.
 That means that we're sort of unlocking energy
 from the universe that was previously hidden.
 And once you discover that, if that's true,
 you sort of, I feel like where it's incumbent upon us
 to sort of see how maximal that truth can be,
 because that kind of thing can have a really meaningful
 effect on the media ecosystem, which in 2017,
 and today is still really, is in a pretty dire state.
 - Yeah, we weren't wrong about our assumptions.
 The idea that the internet was driving us crazy,
 we haven't become less convinced by that.
 - Yeah, yes.
 - In eight years since.
 - So it's like you should go as big as possible.
 And maybe someone comes along and crutches you
 and does it better or takes over along the way.
 But otherwise, there wasn't like a long line of people
 waiting to come and help writers at that time
 or help the media at that time.
 It was actually, a lot of tech companies had come and gone,
 had spent a bunch of money and tried different approaches
 at it and had failed.
 And the common wisdom at that time was just that content,
 content isn't really a good business.
 There's no like billion dollar tech company
 to be built on content.
 - I hate when people call it content.
 - I was gonna say, even the word content
 feels so unpromising, right?
 - It feels so.
 - Yeah.
 - So calories.
 - Eggs, the question.
 What is it?
 Oh, it's the thing that's contained.
 What are you talking about?
 - The only good use of content I've seen is,
 I'm sure you've seen Patrick Collison's LinkedIn page
 that says content strategist,
 which is just a content strategist.
 - Yes.
 - Yeah, it's much better.
 - That's very good.
 I love this, the way you said this,
 Hamish of unleashing energy from the universe.
 And today, when you look at Substack,
 it does just feel like this incredible energy
 has emerged from it.
 This incredible creativity has come from it.
 It's almost, I think of it sometimes almost like a city
 where you have these different neighborhoods.
 You have the, you know, the food folks,
 the culture folks, the business folks,
 and actually those people, you know,
 sometimes cross over,
 sometimes they stay where they are.
 You know, sort of with that metaphor in mind,
 I don't know how good it is,
 but which were like the neighborhoods
 that you were really shocked to see pop up
 in the Substack city,
 and which are the like, you know,
 maybe the empty lots where you're staying,
 you have an eye on them and say,
 actually we could really,
 we could really see something amazing happening here.
 I mean, I'll tell you early on,
 there was a real question that, you know,
 investors and even we had was,
 is this gonna work for anything beyond business?
 'Cause it struck, I mean, you know,
 you've got Bill Bishop, you've got,
 we had a bunch of people who were making kind of like,
 you know, things that you could pay for
 that could help you with your work
 and that you could conceivably put in a corporate credit card.
 And that felt like a pretty well established thing.
 But it was, it was, it came as a,
 not a surprise, but sort of like a pleasant,
 development to us that actually a lot of,
 you know, that stuff is still doing very well
 on Substack today,
 but it's a minority of what's on the platform.
 There's a lot of stuff that's working really well.
 I guess there's more,
 I kind of think of Substack as an index fund of culture
 and for everything that there's somebody out there
 that's really into,
 there's usually like something
 and there's just people are into more stuff
 than I would have been able to think of or list.
 One thing that I do think we,
 I wish we were stronger on.
 And I think there's people doing it
 and they're doing good work,
 but I think the platform could do a better job of
 is just fiction in general.
 I think fiction's really important.
 I think the idea of serialized fiction
 is well, well developed and could work well.
 And I think the overall the,
 yeah, the overall preponderance of fiction on Substack,
 I think if we could crack the code on it could be higher.
 - I, you might have seen my eyes sort of light up
 when you said that.
 One, because I know you're the,
 the son of an English teacher.
 And so, you know, that's, you know,
 you're good, your background doing excellent work there.
 But two, because I think that's, you know,
 feels such like such a big opportunity
 that no one has really nailed.
 I was, I really enjoyed the article, the Substack.
 The Substacker L. Griffin wrote about,
 no, I think it's called, "No one will ever read your book."
 And it sort of breaks down the state
 of the publishing industry, especially for fiction
 and how just like, you know, very, very tough it is
 for anyone to crack it.
 And she's, it's crowd funded a book
 successfully on her Substack.
 - I just invested.
 So I'm, I'm a small participant.
 But yeah, it feels like there's such an interesting
 opportunity there.
 Like, what do you think the, the right way to sort of
 make that, it's a cultivate that further looks like.
 Maybe, Hamish, you can tell us a little bit about that.
 - Gonna make us write some checks here
 that we can promise on caching and the immediate future.
 Well, we've already had people
 serializing books on Substack to some success
 and then get traditional publishing deals
 at the end of that serialization
 where the book becomes this physical memento,
 this, this monument to the work
 and that gets exposed to new audiences in that way.
 We've had people who are like right there draft in public.
 A lot of Jonathan Heights, the anxious generation
 was first published on Substack or his Substack after Babel.
 I think there's kind of interesting ideas
 around like community participation in a book
 where you publish chapters or you publish as you write
 and you get feedback from people
 and keep on adjusting the narrative
 in response to the feedback.
 I think there's ways that the product could evolve
 to more perfectly suit the style of publishing,
 but already what you've got is enough
 for something super interesting.
 I'd love to see books live on the web in the future as well.
 I think it's kind of criminal
 that books don't live on the web.
 You can't have a website version of your book.
 Something like Substack allows for that
 because if you wanna make money from selling the book,
 you can still put certain chapters behind the paywall
 and then have it read out to you
 by the AI voice that's really high quality.
 So I think there's tons of room for experimentation
 and exploration within the Substack model,
 within the Substack platform for books.
 We've already seen plenty of success cases
 and I think we're gonna see a lot more
 and we'll keep evolving the product
 to perfectly suit those needs, won't we, Chris?
 - I'm not trying to pin you down to anything in particular,
 but you mentioned how it's worked for different books
 and I've seen some really interesting projects
 over the past few weeks in particular
 when I've been learning about this a bit more.
 For fiction in particular,
 do you think there's certain things that are required?
 You mentioned writing in conversation with your audience.
 I always think of Andy Weir in The Martian
 where he wrote bit by bit on his blog
 and then that has since become a massive hit.
 Yeah, wondering if that type of storytelling
 in particular requires different tools.
 - I do think there's some practical stuff
 that we could improve.
 One thing I think about a lot is
 because Substack started in
 and still has a major component that is email-based,
 a lot of our metaphors are sort of email-driven, right?
 It's like you get a new thing,
 when I stream something to get a new thing in my inbox,
 the new ones at the top.
 And I've read fiction on Substack before
 and the problem that happens to me is
 I'll start reading it, I'll read the first chapter.
 I got the second chapter, read the second chapter.
 I get the third chapter and I'll not read it immediately.
 And then the next thing I know, I'm getting the seventh chapter.
 And so my new email is like, here's the seventh chapter.
 And I'm like, oh wait, I gotta go find the third chapter.
 Or where am I in this thing?
 And the fact of getting the serial in slices
 is not actually the ideal way to get it.
 And if we were solving that problem,
 the thing I would imagine is
 I might have one updating.
 And that thing should actually be grouped into one logical story.
 It could update as it goes, it could bump up
 when there's a new one.
 But it would remember me as the reader where I am
 and help me kind of go through it in the right order.
 I think that would actually go a long way.
 - Yeah, I really believe there will or can,
 at the very least, be a future in just the same way
 that you have Netflix and Amazon that wins Oscars.
 Maybe there will be a National Book Award winner
 that was first published on Substack.
 - Sure.
 - And you could publish, I mean you could publish
 a TV show on Substack to now by the same token, right?
 And you would want it to work the same way.
 You want it, you know, if I go to the Netflix show,
 it remembers where I am.
 It remembers what episode I've watched.
 I could pick up where I left off.
 That's just what people expect now.
 And I think it's more important for fiction
 because reading it in order is more important
 and reading it in a timely fashion is less important.
 - That's really true.
 You mentioned, you know, with TV shows.
 And one of the things that I think you guys have done
 so interestingly over the years is sort of
 progressively expand into different mediums.
 You have podcasting now, video, chat, short posts.
 Each of those mediums sort of has their own strengths
 and weaknesses, you might say, their own little flavors.
 How have you thought about like managing potential tensions
 or trade-offs between those different mediums
 while trying to retain the parts of Substack
 that make it unique and make it special?
 - Yeah, one way I put this is that a lot of other,
 you know, platforms that you might think of
 got built up around a format.
 And so, you know, Instagram was pictures
 and then Snapchat was disappearing pictures
 and then TikTok was short for a bit like and so on.
 And Substack is not built around a format.
 Substack is built around you.
 It's built around the subscription relationship
 that you have and being able to unlock that,
 to be every format that you want to use
 is a, I mean, a design challenge, right?
 It's hard to make an app that has all of these different,
 you know, short-form social media,
 ish posts and long-form articles and podcasts
 and videos, short-form videos and like,
 maybe other like chat, there's all these things.
 It's hard to make a, put all of those together
 into one package in a way that's coherent.
 And I actually think we still have a lot of work
 to do on that.
 The thing we've kind of done is we've like,
 built a bunch of these things.
 They're all kind of working.
 It's exciting.
 And then sometimes when you open the Substack app,
 you're like, oh my God, what's happening here?
 Like there's so many different things.
 So I think we have still some work to do
 to kind of like bring it together into a simple package.
 But listen, our thing ultimately is like,
 you should be able to create in every format
 that you care about and reach your audience.
 And you shouldn't be limited to,
 oh, I've got a subscriber on this platform
 so I can only ever make videos.
 I can never write or vice versa.
 And in the world of, you know,
 all of these new AI tools that are coming online,
 it's getting easier and easier to get creative leverage.
 Right? The idea that you could have an AI
 that you talk into your phone
 and sort of magically turns it into
 like a usable artifact is possible now.
 You know, you can already read, you know,
 listen to things that are written in the Substack app
 with like a great AI voice that sounds awesome.
 Like all of these things are becoming easier
 to translate from one medium to another
 to sort of like make highly produced stuff
 in audio and video without having to, you know,
 hire a team of nerds every time.
 It's a new world, it's exciting.
 - I certainly want to talk more about AI at some point.
 But Hey, Mitch, I'd be curious for your take
 on the fact that, you know,
 Substack was certainly created in response to the fact
 that we sort of have spent our attention pretty badly
 over the past decade plus on, you know, short,
 social media, short videos, is there,
 do you ever like have a worry as a writer yourself
 that as that sort of starts to come into Substack
 because it's so addictive or because our minds seem wired
 to, you know, want to consume this
 that actually, you know, short video ends up taking time
 away from people reading the, you know,
 Great Piece of Fiction or, you know,
 George Saunders Story Club,
 whichever these great pieces of culture
 that are on Substack, you know,
 sort of shifting that focus a bit.
 - I'm actually really excited about what's possible
 when you get that short form feed and discussion
 and discovery in the context of Substack
 where everything is based around deep relationships
 that leads people, when these things are like
 the front door opening up to a path that leads people
 down to a subscription or like a kind of relationship
 with a creator or a writer who they really care about.
 I think what we've seen so far is that
 those kinds of technologies that Twitter feed,
 the Facebook news feed, Instagram, YouTube, et cetera
 are extremely powerful.
 People are going to spend their time there
 TikTok is the latest one.
 And they're going to spend their time there
 whether we like it or not.
 I'm going to spend my time in lots of those places,
 a lot of those time for like my snacking time,
 my relax time, my casual, browsing time,
 even though I love to read books,
 even though I love to watch documentaries.
 And given that that is true, and it's very obviously true,
 these are the platforms that culture is happening
 onto a large extent and there's billions of people
 using them, wouldn't it be interesting
 to see what happens if you rip the ads out of them
 and give them the job of maximizing these deep
 relationships instead of maximizing how much time someone
 spends doom scrolling.
 And I think what we've seen in the Substack network
 is that that can create something pretty fucking interesting
 and a different type of experience in those feeds
 where when you leave the Substack feed,
 you don't come away feeling dirty.
 You don't come away feeling like you misspent your time
 and you've actually likely started a bunch
 of interesting relationships either by casually
 following a creator or actually fully subscribing,
 maybe even paying to subscribe to a creator
 who you might not have known about otherwise.
 So that's really exciting to me
 'cause I think it lessens the grip that those other platforms
 have on society's mind.
 And it strengthens and gives power to the types of creators
 who are doing quality work and just need to help that work,
 just need some help finding those audiences
 who are gonna deeply appreciate that work.
 - Anectotally, I will say that you phrased that perfectly.
 When I use notes, for example,
 which is the sort of Twitter equivalent on Substack,
 I don't feel dirty and I'm not really sure why.
 I haven't really totally cracked why it feels
 like a different experience.
 Maybe it is the absence of ads.
 Maybe it's just like--
 - He longs not on there yet.
 - He's not on there yet.
 - I will say it's probably somewhere on there.
 - I will make this out of distinction.
 There's not just the absence of ads,
 although personally, 18 ads is annoying to me
 that have my experience interrupted by ads.
 But the ads is the ads warp the incentives.
 The ads change.
 The advertising being the business model
 that makes those whole companies run
 mean that they have to point the algorithms
 for their feeds at the things that serve the advertisers,
 not the things that serve the people
 who are consuming the culture
 and you wanna connect with great creators
 and consume great video, audio, text, whatever.
 And so it's like the difference
 between an internal combustion engine car
 and an electric car where they kinda look the same, right?
 But the experience of driving an electric car
 where there's no gas shifting
 and there's just pure smooth instant acceleration
 and torque distribution is so much nicer
 and so much better than driving an internal combustion car
 which is predicated on all these explosions happening
 under the hood of your car.
 And the external outputs
 are also completely different.
 Like the gasoline car pollutes the atmosphere
 and electric cars are much friendly to the environment.
 Same with the sub-stack feed versus the other feeds.
 The other feeds end up polluting your mind
 and the sub-stack feed maybe can even cleanse your mind.
 - Can even cleanse your mind.
 - Yeah, put it in the new tagline.
 - Cleanse your mind.
 - Yeah, yeah.
 - Might be an over process.
 - But you don't come away feeling so pollutedly,
 so let's leave it at that.
 Yes, absolutely.
 And I think it's interesting.
 It's just from like a pure business strategy perspective,
 I think notes is such an interesting
 and an intelligent sort of addition to the platform
 because it is this top of funnel.
 But as you said, the pipeline is working
 in your favor as a writer or a creator
 rather than sort of against you
 where certainly on Twitter and X,
 you can go viral, let's say.
 And I would sort of very carefully chart
 how many subscribers did that create
 and how many paying subscribers did that create.
 And it could be a really tiny number
 because it's just such a diffuse pipeline.
 And so that's such an interesting thing
 from a creator's vantage.
 It also I think brings up the conversation,
 the internet of beef, battle royale
 between sub-stack and X.
 For those who maybe didn't follow that chapter closely,
 can you explain sort of why there is some degree
 of intense competition there
 and how sort of creators maybe got caught
 in the crossfire a little bit?
 Sure, I'll tell the original story.
 Elon Musk bought Twitter a couple of years ago.
 And one of the things that he had his eyes on early on
 was bringing sub-stack into the Twitter fold more.
 He actually thought that these companies
 could work really well together.
 And on the face of it, it seems like they do
 compliment each other.
 Lots of people discover sub-stacks through Twitter
 and then go on and pay to those creators on sub-stack.
 And I think Elon's view is probably like,
 well, sub-stack is effectively acting as a paywall
 for Twitter.
 These two things should just be together.
 And so he tried to convince us
 that we should join forces in this way.
 We actually have like a different vision
 of how this all should play out.
 And we like the more integrated system that sub-stack has
 where there's not like an ad-based feed
 that has sometimes competing interests
 with the deep relationships feed
 or the deep relationships platform.
 And so we're like, we're not eager to do that.
 And in the meantime, launched our social networking type
 feeds, the notes product, gave Elon a courtesy heads up
 about it the night before, or the day before he did that.
 And then when it came out, the next day,
 people on Twitter freaked out and said,
 well, here comes the Twitter killer.
 Sub-stack's got the Twitter killer,
 which is not how we were positioning it.
 You can't just instantly make an amazing social network on day.
 One, it takes time to build that ecosystem up.
 But it didn't matter to Elon.
 He saw it as a direct shot across the bow
 and mute sub-stack from Twitter, essentially.
 You immediately cut us off from their API,
 suppressed all the links that were going
 to sub-stack publications.
 Even for a couple of days, you couldn't search
 for the word sub-stack in Twitter.
 It would just return results with newsletter.
 He accused us of stealing data in the meantime,
 and which is totally bullshit.
 We were just using the API in a normal way.
 But that created the impression
 that there was this big beef going on.
 But to us, it was kind of like where Ukraine and his Putin,
 he just decided to start bombing us.
 And we're like, why are we getting bombs?
 We're just trying to build this ecosystem.
 And it hasn't hurt--
 We're going to take the temperature down
 by using a neutral metaphor.
 Yeah, yeah.
 Sorry to all of the Russia fans.
 But so we just continued, essentially.
 The Twitter was already becoming a less important share
 of traffic for sub-stack publications.
 It was really painful for a few.
 But as with, it was a good thing to happen for sub-stack,
 ultimately, because it forces sub-stack
 to continue building the kinds of things
 that help writers and creators on the platform
 grow without making them dependent on these capricious
 and volatile social networks that don't really
 have the creators' interests at heart
 that are mostly focused on their own platforms
 and the advertising.
 So that is-- that's basically what happened.
 I think Elon's interest has moved onto other things
 at the moment.
 And so maybe that.
 He's got a few things that is on his plate.
 Their beef has become a small medallion
 on the corner of his vast plate.
 Yes.
 His very vast plate.
 When you mentioned that there was some point
 where there was the discussion about how you guys
 maybe would work together.
 Did you ever get to the stage of thinking, you know,
 actually, you know, maybe there is a way to do that
 in a deep partnership or even an acquisition?
 Like, did it ever get to those--
 to that sort of level of conversation?
 It's not something that we were keyed on.
 You know, we've always wanted to build sub-stack
 as a successful sort of independent endeavor.
 We think we're building something wholly new.
 And when there's been conversations about,
 hey, should we join this or that company?
 I think in general, it would break the thing
 that we're trying to accomplish.
 Yeah.
 Like, philosophically, these are such different businesses,
 right?
 Yeah, and it's not--
 I think it would just be hard to make the thing that we're
 trying to make in a context like that.
 And we're seeing-- I mean, we are seeing this now.
 Like, we had been working on the sub-stack app
 and this sort of like this network concept for years
 and years and years, because we knew it was--
 we knew it was going to become critical.
 Because in the early days of sub-stack--
 like, I think when Elon did that,
 he thought he could sort of kill a sub-stack.
 He thought we were wholly dependent on it.
 And although it was-- I don't want to diminish it,
 it was very painful for many, you know, Twitter users
 who had sub-stacks, who like had this thing.
 It was-- it was-- it was no fun.
 But from a systematic level, it was basically
 a rounding error by that point.
 Like, it didn't matter.
 But there was a time like in 2019 where that actually
 was true, like, basically everything on sub-stack
 was downstream of-- used to be able to like tweet out a link
 and everybody would see it.
 And you could get like, you know, that experience you're
 having, you get like a ton of subscribers.
 And so a lot of our early growth was driven by this effect.
 But we knew there's two problems with that.
 Number one, you're still just downstream
 of the Twitter incentive structure then, right?
 If you're saying, my whole business depends
 on my top-of-funnel coming from this other network,
 I still have to play the game of that other network.
 And I'm still kind of like beholden
 to that incentive structure.
 And then the other part of it is just practical.
 It's like, well, it's not really in there.
 They don't care about your business working.
 In fact, maybe it's a negative.
 And so you saw this kind of-- and not just from Twitter,
 but, you know, they've blocked us.
 But then, since then, they've-- it's basically all links
 or deprioritize.
 I don't think sub-stack even gets particularly
 special treatment anymore.
 We've seen all kinds of vagaries,
 meta for a long period, went through a period
 where they just didn't allow any political content,
 because they're just like, we don't want this.
 And, you know, fair enough.
 But then, if you're a political journalist or podcaster,
 like, what does that mean for you?
 And so, you know, if you want to-- we want people on sub-stack
 to be able to promote their work on every place,
 like, put it everywhere, have the podcast feed,
 put it on YouTube, put it on Twitter,
 put it on TikTok, like, of course.
 But you don't want to be wholly dependent on any of those things.
 You want to have at least one place where
 people can discover your work in a way
 that actually wants them to find it and fall in love with it
 and go deep on it.
 And that thing working is a big part of why, you know,
 that you use that city metaphor that says,
 I can kind of feel this way now.
 You kind of have this sense of, like,
 there's a whole set of stuff out there that I can go and find.
 That's happening because there's this, you know,
 this discovery piece of the equation,
 where people are proactively coming to sub-stack
 to, you know, keep up with the things they're subscribed to
 in love and then find new things to fall in love with.
 And you're talking before about, I'll add one more thing
 to this before I completely fill the buster.
 But you're mentioning, like, is there tension
 between short form and long form in that?
 Like, by adding the notes feed, does that--
 you know, is there some trade-off of, like, some time
 that I spend on Twitter, I could have spent reading a book
 instead, like, what's the deal?
 I actually think, I can see where that comes from.
 And, like, it's some logical level, like, that's true.
 But in practice, I think the reverse is closer to true,
 where if we built the, you know, if we built sub-stack
 to be the each or vegetable's platform that says,
 there's only going to be ultra long form dense works
 of, you know, extreme journalism here.
 The net effect of that would not be that all of a sudden
 there'd be way more steep long form stuff.
 The net effect of that would be much fewer--
 many fewer people would use sub-stack.
 It'd be harder to make money as somebody working on sub-stack.
 And so, as we've been building the, you know,
 the discovery feed, the thing we've seen again and again
 is there's-- when you do something that's good,
 when you actually make a change to it that really works,
 you get these, like, across-the-board wins,
 where it's like, hey, we made it better.
 And people saw more things in their feed.
 But also, they read more long form posts.
 But also, they discovered and subscribed to more things.
 But also, they retained better and came back more often.
 But also, they paid more money.
 Like, there's sort of like a version of this thing
 where when you make it actually genuinely good,
 you know, you don't have to be a monk
 to read interesting stuff on sub-stack.
 You just kind of show up, you've got this feed.
 But then, in your feed, there's like, oh, here's this quote
 from this really interesting article.
 I click into it.
 Now, I'm reading this interesting article.
 Then I read the next one.
 You can kind of, like, make a universe that's helping you
 go deep and helping you become a better version of yourself
 by giving you something compelling.
 Instead of giving you something compelling
 to try to, like, erode your attention span in your mind.
 We're such magicians that we can trick you
 into being a decent person.
 We will trick you into reading quality, writing, please.
 Decent persons, too, isn't an over-clam.
 We can trick you into reading and watching
 and listening to good stuff.
 That's good enough for us.
 I remember when we were chatting back in 2023,
 when we wrote a case study on sub-stack.
 You guys talked about how you think of, you know,
 the company as a tool, a network, and a destination.
 And I think what you're saying there is really, like,
 that network and destination piece
 really helps every other publication on there.
 You need it to be a destination to drive
 all of these people in.
 And then, those people do, you know,
 find these great pieces of content, even if, you know,
 it's totally fine that they also engage
 with shorter form things as well.
 A great example of one such platform exists,
 and it's probably the best one for media on the internet
 at the moment, which is other than the sub-stack,
 which is YouTube.
 Not only a giant business, but a place
 of, like, quality stuff, the historic and contemporary,
 where people are bound in these relationships.
 The relationships, I actually think that there's
 lots of room to improve on YouTube, though,
 because those relationships are still ultimately
 controlled by the platform itself.
 And the monetization is only based around--
 was primarily based around advertising, which sort of sets
 terms for who can be successful there and what gets made
 and how it gets made and how it gets presented.
 Whereas the sub-stack version of YouTube
 is based on deeper relationships and direct subscriptions
 that directly support the creators who are doing the work.
 And I think that's going to create something pretty special,
 and we've just seen the beginnings of it.
 This episode is brought to you by WorkOS.
 What do companies like OpenAI, Cursor, Perplexity, Webflow,
 Plaid, and Verssell all have in common?
 They use WorkOS to power enterprise features
 like single sign-on, directory sync,
 and multi-factor authentication.
 WorkOS is set apart by its modern APIs and SDKs
 for seamless enterprise integrations.
 Plus, it's free to get started.
 Whether you're a scrappy startup or rapidly scaling,
 WorkOS has the solutions you need
 to secure enterprise deals.
 Future-proof your authentication stack
 with the identity layer best suited
 to meet the evolving demands of enterprise environments.
 Find out how at WorkOS.com.
 I think people don't fully appreciate
 how the monetization on sub-stack
 differs from YouTube, for example.
 Like there was, you'll remember the sub-stacker
 who wrote this piece recently,
 but there was a great piece on sub-stack
 about a prominent YouTuber who does food YouTubing
 and built a really large audience,
 like 250K subscribers, producing fantastic videos,
 and absolutely could not make the economics work,
 was effectively losing money on every video
 for a couple of years.
 And, you know, having that direct relationship
 with a subscriber totally changes that.
 - That's right, this Carla Lally music,
 and she's a food professional,
 like a chef and media personality
 who came out through Bonapati Test Kitchen,
 and she started on YouTube like three years ago,
 she had something like 18 million views in aggregate.
 200,000 people liked her stuff enough
 that they clicked the button saying,
 "Yes, I want to like see her in my feet all the time."
 200,000 people is a sizeable audience by any measure,
 except by the, you can only make money
 through YouTube ad share, revenue type of measure.
 And so she really was making high quality videos,
 but it was a grind, it was a hustle in the grind,
 and what she ultimately decided to do
 was to shift all that attention and energy to sub-stack,
 where that kind of audience can really sustain you.
 And the economics of direct subscriptions
 are totally different in terms of the audio
 you must reach to become interesting.
 And so she makes far more money on sub-stack
 for far less production intensive type of work
 that doesn't negate the possibility
 of doing these beautiful videos,
 where she gets to build over time
 and can make money really fast.
 Like, I don't mean, well, yes, it can increase fast,
 but like the time from starting
 to get to sustainability with a subscription model,
 that depends only on a few hundred or a thousand people
 to support you to make it enough to live on,
 is so much shorter than the time it takes
 to build up a giant enough audience
 that it becomes interesting for advertising.
 And so I think that that's a super interesting case
 to look at for kind of the potentially transformative effect
 of going deep with devoted audiences,
 rather than trying to do the old model,
 which is to go wide for an audience
 that is kind of casually interested
 in some thirty third party comes in and monetizes it
 and gives you some scraps from the table.
 Chris, you were mentioning a moment ago,
 how important it is to not be locked in
 by these platforms, whether it's YouTube or anyone else.
 We had a really interesting sort of case and point
 of that earlier this year,
 when TikTok was briefly shut down in the U.S.
 And substation have leaned into that moment,
 it felt like from outside and was able
 to bring some TikTokers into the substacker fold.
 Can you tell us a little bit about that moment
 and maybe what it meant for the business?
 - Yeah, one of the things that substack offers,
 as you know, is ownership over your audience, right?
 So you have, when somebody subscribes,
 you get their email, you can import emails
 to your substack and you can also export them.
 So if you decide for whatever reason,
 substack is not working for you,
 these are your relationships.
 You can take it to another platform,
 you can reach out to them, you have these kinds of options.
 And we've always felt like that's important.
 We think of it, you know,
 primarily as like exit rights, right?
 Like if part of the reason you can trust substack
 is because if we start to like turn evil,
 you have this, you have this right to leave.
 And that just doesn't exist in other platforms.
 And we, you know, the drama around the TikTok ban,
 we felt like it was just a moment
 that was taking that like abstract idea
 and making it really suddenly real for a lot of people,
 you know, whether, and I think it's still unclear
 what's going to happen to TikTok in the long run.
 But whatever happens,
 I think it just caused it to be really front of mind,
 definitely for YouTubers,
 but also for people on Instagram and on YouTube
 saying like, oh yeah, if this platform shifts or changes
 or, you know, goes in a direction
 that's not the direction that I want to take my work,
 what's going to happen to me?
 And so we went to a bunch of TikToks and said,
 hey, you should start a substack.
 And you know, at least you should collect an email list
 so that you have this list.
 But also we've said that we've built a bunch
 of these really good video tools.
 We have this very easy to use live thing
 that goes right from your phone.
 We've got this thing.
 And we had a bunch of people launch.
 So we've been extremely successful.
 Maybe the case study for this is Aaron Parnas,
 who was like a very famous, you know,
 political reporter, TikToker,
 like news, news TikToker, right?
 - He's sort of like a TikTok news personality.
 - Yeah, he would like tell the translatable news
 of the day for his audience.
 - None of the three of us are huge TikTok natives.
 It feels like there's some sharp hearing about there.
 - Probably during this period I also created
 my TikTok account and started really TikToks.
 - Oh God, I went viral once it was thrilling.
 You did?
 What did you post?
 - Well, not very, but I just, I don't know.
 - It was a sexy dance.
 Here's why I should just put a substack.
 - But yeah, and he's got a, he's got a substack now
 and it's going gangbusters.
 And it's, I think, you know, if I'm reading some of like
 the notes he's posting about it and we've talked,
 but basically like the thing that it feels
 like it enables him to do, right?
 It's not just, 'cause when you make money
 through subscriptions, it's not just about
 like how much money it is, although that obviously matters,
 the money hits different, right?
 The fact that people are there supporting you
 because they believe in the work means
 that you can make your money doing the best work,
 not just by like trying to go viral
 or trying to hustle for sponsorships
 or trying to do whatever thing.
 I think it has felt like it's transformed for him
 like what kind of work he can do
 and what kind of ambition he can have with it.
 And I think that there are a lot of people
 on other platforms of the internet.
 It's not everybody, right?
 It's not that everybody on TikTok has an audience
 that's champing at the bit to subscribe to them
 or on YouTube or on Instagram or on anywhere else.
 But a lot of them are.
 There are, and they're disproportionately ill served, right?
 The people who have maybe not like the most enormous audience
 but whose audience like deeply values what they're doing,
 those people could not just, you know,
 have the benefit of having an email or something,
 they can make more money on sub stack.
 And so we're working on bringing the word to them.
 - Well, I'm sure you will.
 When you sort of project forward five, 10 years,
 you know, imagine that we do have so many folks
 from TikTok aboard, you have, you know, great food folks.
 Just, you know, several orders of magnitude
 bigger than it is today, let's say.
 What does the sort of consumer behavior look like?
 Like will people just have to get used to the fact
 that a larger percent of their budget goes towards
 information that otherwise was free?
 Is it that, you know, people do start to bundle
 and that becomes an important part of it?
 How do you think that plays out?
 - People are already willing to spend money
 on culture that they value.
 And it's not 'cause they're not dumb to do that,
 they're smart to do it.
 If you think about, you know,
 if you listen to an hour long podcast
 or you read a book, what is the opportunity costs
 that you're paying in your time,
 your life, your attention for doing that?
 And if you could pay a couple bucks to get something
 that's a more, like a more valuable return on your time
 and your life, is that worth it?
 And I think there's like a very large number of people
 today for whom the answer to that is a resounding yes,
 but who have not yet had the opportunity to do that.
 And so I think first, like the highest sort of part of this
 is like, you know, are we, as a society investing,
 like too much, too little or just the right amount
 in great culture and rewarding people
 who are making valuable media,
 I would argue we're paying way too little.
 And there's a much higher ceiling than what we have today.
 People are gonna pay a lot more.
 And they're not gonna address it,
 but they're gonna feel like this is great.
 I'm able to get all of the stuff that I really care about.
 I think there's some limit.
 I think there's ways that we can like, you know,
 work on making it like, making the economics of it,
 kind of like maximally favorable to people on both sides.
 But I think that the highest sort of bit is just like,
 it's worth paying for things that are good.
 - Yeah, I'm interested.
 I wonder where that share of wallet ends up coming from,
 even if we say, okay, you know,
 that obviously can't scale limitlessly,
 that people will just spend all their money
 on information as much as Mike Gimlet eyes
 that the generalists would love it.
 You know, does it come out of sort of traditional education
 where people are saying, hey, you know,
 it's actually much less important to me
 to spend a hundred, you know,
 several hundred thousands of dollars on university
 when I can, you know, really learn how to code
 or learn how to invest or, you know,
 learn whatever it is from subst, you know,
 several substacks that I subscribe to once a month.
 Hey, miss, do you have any thoughts
 on where that share comes from
 or how you think that plays out?
 - I think we should get Chris to talk about his grand
 theory about how the economy changes as AI starts
 to eat more jobs and how that shifts Spain as well.
 - I think that's probably,
 I think that's probably an interesting place to take it,
 but people have a history of making room
 to pay for culture they care about
 that no one used to pay for Netflix.
 I guess it shifted from cable a little bit.
 No one, no one used to pay for,
 ooh, I guess I was gonna say Spotify,
 but I guess that shifted from like buying records
 individually a little bit,
 but it probably contributed to increase spend
 in other ways, like on shows, on merch, et cetera.
 But I think the AI revolution take it is a pretty
 interesting one, maybe Chris.
 - It's a good time for a grand theory.
 - Yeah, let's give a grand theory, Chris.
 - Well, okay, here's the grand theory,
 which is technology in general makes things
 better and cheaper.
 Like if you allow technology to be applied,
 it makes things better and cheaper.
 And I think we could,
 you can calibrate to be how much of a believer
 in this stuff, but I think AI is this insane,
 general purpose technology that we're just at the start
 of starting to kind of like apply to the real world.
 And I think some people,
 some people, even people who are in the AI space
 deeply understand the technology,
 but haven't grasped the economics
 of this that much 'cause they're sort of like,
 ah, like everybody will have no jobs anymore
 and will need to like whatever have some UBI thing
 for all the, but that's not actually what happens, right?
 What happens as things get better and cheaper
 is the economy adapts.
 There are other things that get more expensive.
 Basically, the pieces that are not getting,
 whatever pieces are not getting automated,
 there's a thing called Bombal's cost disease
 if you frame it in kind of like a negative way,
 but it means that, you know,
 as the opportunity cost,
 as everybody gets richer, as more things happen,
 the things that are not touched by technology
 just get more expensive and take up
 a bigger and bigger share of the economy.
 And then you can ask, okay,
 so what is AI and technology gonna do to media?
 And on the one hand, it's gonna make,
 you know, it's gonna make it better and cheaper, right?
 It's gonna make it easier to create content.
 If you wanna make a highly produced piece of media,
 if you want like you're gonna get to a world where,
 you know, two people could make a feature film
 in their garage and it's gonna be like better
 than anything you could have made, you know, a decade ago.
 And so on the one hand, you're gonna have the same effect
 where all of the stuff gets cheaper to make.
 And if you, if your view of the purpose of media
 is to be kind of like a drug,
 where it's just, it's effect on you
 is the only thing that you care about.
 What you're gonna have is you're gonna have like
 magical, you know, AI media wire heading,
 wire heading being a science fiction concept
 where you can kind of like, you know,
 you just watch like super AI TikTok
 that's a hundred times more powerful than human TikTok
 and you just kind of like, you know, bask in this glow
 of thing and it kind of cooks your brain for you.
 - Endless free drugs.
 - Just to some, yeah, endless free drugs.
 That's probably gonna happen to some extent.
 Yeah, people are gonna do that.
 That's gonna be a great business.
 You know, is what it is.
 But you know, in my mind, that's not actually
 the main purpose of media and culture.
 Media is not just about getting what you want.
 It's also about learning what to want, right?
 It's shaping how you think.
 It's shaping what you value.
 It's shaping who you become, right?
 Ultimately, you know, the media, culture,
 the conversations we have,
 these are like the human alignment problem.
 They're not solved.
 And so as the price of, you know,
 the cost of generic content falls to zero,
 which by the way has already been happening.
 We already have the internet.
 There's already more things to read
 that I could ever read, more video to watch
 than I could ever watch.
 And in that, and that's just gonna get even more extreme.
 And it's the stuff that I can't watch
 is gonna get higher quality.
 But in that world of information abundance,
 the relationship that you have,
 if sub-stack is about people,
 the relationship that you have with people you trust
 is gonna get more valuable paradoxically.
 Because you need to know how to curate your attention.
 You need to know what to care about,
 what to pay attention to, what to spend time on.
 You know, you want it to be a multiplayer game.
 You wanna be participating in a culture
 that other people are participating in.
 You know, just wanna have, you know,
 there will be people that just have fake AI friends
 and that live their whole life that way.
 But that's not what everybody's gonna want.
 And so in that world, you know,
 as this bomb all effect happens,
 I think you could have kind of like a benign version of it
 where the creation and participation in human culture
 becomes actually a larger share of the economy
 as all of the things that are kind of like
 can be made cheaper and abundant,
 get made cheaper and abundant.
 And in that world, the, you know,
 what's the right amount for people to spend on subs?
 I think it's much higher.
 I think it's an exciting and exciting future.
 - It says AI slop and AI entertainment sort of takes over,
 you know, yeah, the entertainment piece of media,
 the part that gets more valuable is learning what to want,
 learning, you know, who you wanna be in
 and sort of curating your information sources.
 And in that humans play an outsized role.
 And so you're sort of picking those influences
 on yourself, is that, is that a fair summation?
 - Yeah, basically.
 And we're gonna need new cultural norms
 to deal with all this stuff.
 But yeah, the trust relationships
 that I have become more valuable.
 - Hamish, when you first heard the grand unified theory,
 what was your, what was your response or your response?
 How much do you buy into the world view?
 - I buy into it a lot.
 It pumps me up.
 I think I've always thought this.
 Writers and more important than developers,
 which is something I say.
 - Oh, we always go ahead.
 - I agree, of course.
 - It tells me that every day.
 - Well, yeah, I think for gosh,
 this is like the only company where you have to listen
 to that and take it.
 - Yes.
 - Yes.
 - The writers of the Kings here.
 - Half to you.
 - Maybe too strong, but.
 - Writing, obviously, being the greatest technology
 that humans have ever invented.
 And so in the sense that we are a writing company,
 we're a technology company, but we're all of culture.
 I'm not just writing video audio, et cetera.
 But I also think that's like,
 that's at the heart of what it means to be human.
 This is the way we evolved through leaning on each other,
 through evolving together as social creatures
 with strong social bonds.
 And that the sharing of culture and storytelling
 is essential to that, very bond,
 which is like at the center of all of human existence.
 And so the, like to get even like
 more grandiose scenario, very about it.
 The thing that gets valued in this new economy
 is less that like, I get something,
 I get a piece of content from you,
 or I get a piece of content from some machine.
 It's more about soul connection.
 I know that there's another human on the other end of this.
 And that when that human thrives, I thrive too,
 and then we grow together.
 So I completely buy it.
 I buy it on the new age-y type of level.
 I buy it on the economic level.
 I buy it on the technological level.
 And I'm excited for that future.
 And I think it's the future that's worth building towards
 and the future worth feeling hopeful.
 - I hope all the generalist listeners like
 and please subscribe to my soul connection,
 because that's the future that we're talking about here.
 - Just one more point on the AI front,
 before we maybe talk about, you know,
 media landscape today,
 what are the like accretive ways
 for substact to lean into AI?
 What are the places that it makes sense
 for empowering creators with this technology?
 - Well, I think anything that is giving people
 creative leverage is an obvious place to lean in.
 You know, one of the things when we started with writers,
 one of, there was a bunch of things that were good
 about substact, like the business model's good,
 you can make this money.
 But one that I think is maybe under,
 it's not less obvious,
 is just the fact that we kind of like made it really easy.
 If you're an individual person,
 who is a great writer, who has something to say,
 that's hard enough and rare enough.
 And there were people like Ben Thompson,
 who happened to have something really good to say
 and be technologists and product people
 and entrepreneurs and be able to kind of like
 invent this stack and this thing for themselves.
 But there's a lot more people
 who are just, who just have something to say.
 And so one of the things with substact
 is we wanna have this sort of Prometheus instinct to say,
 we're gonna just bring this power to you
 and make it really easy.
 If you're a great writer,
 come and type into this box.
 And if the thing you type is great, which is hard enough,
 but if it's great, you're gonna get rich and famous.
 This is a magical machine that's gonna like
 take care of the rest of the things for you.
 That's what we aspire to.
 Yeah, there's a big settings page
 you have to go to sometimes.
 But that's sort of like, that's at least
 the like animating spirit of where we're trying to get to.
 And I think something that's happening
 not in the distant future, but is currently today
 very possible, is you can do that for all,
 for many more kinds of media.
 So we have an example of this,
 we're working on this live product,
 where you can go and open the substact app,
 call someone up and have what's effectively
 like a FaceTime call with them.
 And it gets broadcast live,
 your subscribers can tune in, that's cool.
 But the most important part of it
 is just kind of like sets this expectation
 that you can basically just show up
 and like talk into your phone.
 You just go and say, hey, it's like,
 it's like, I'm calling you like, what's up?
 How's it going?
 And then because we have this new suite of AI tools,
 we can in the back end go and say, all right,
 take this thing, they didn't have the perfect microphone.
 Okay, hey, I fixed the sound.
 Oh, it was the front facing iPhone camera.
 Okay, turn it into a high quality thing,
 fix the lighting, make it look great.
 Okay, they went and did a long live,
 go and just like edit it, cut out the boring parts,
 find the clips that are really good.
 And so there's gonna be this,
 what used to be possible only for writing,
 you're gonna have with multiple different media types
 where I can just kind of show up and talk into my phone.
 And if the thing I have to say is great,
 I can get rich and famous, I can make a million dollars.
 Jim Acosta was a CNN anchor who quit CNN,
 his only computer was like the company computer
 and they took it away.
 He didn't have a laptop anymore.
 And he got the sub stack iPhone's phone and he went live
 and just did it by himself, didn't have a whole--
 - And got an instant media business out of it.
 Like people showed up and drove it.
 So like excited to pay to subscribe,
 to support him and get what he was conveying,
 which is he hasn't pay all any content
 so no one's getting content that they're paying
 for that soul connection.
 And talks to his hand.
 Talks to his hand has an instant media business
 in the space of seconds.
 - 'Cause the face don't give a damn,
 sorry, that's the mind is kidding me.
 Never mind. - Please keep that,
 don't cut that, don't cut that, it's genius.
 - That'll be the clip we lead with.
 How far do you think you might go
 or do you see the possibilities of going
 around like new mediums, for example?
 Like, you know, there could be a version of this
 where the writer brain in me is like,
 "Well, there could be really cool text adventure games
 that artists might wanna create."
 Like, what are the constraints that are important
 to keep before things get too unwieldy maybe?
 - I think it's really hard to predict.
 You know, I think we're in a period right now
 of genuine technological advancement,
 genuine discovery.
 And I don't think anybody can accurately predict
 where it's going, what's gonna work.
 I think you see very interesting things
 where the state of the technology has progressed
 way ahead of how we've figured out how to use it.
 And so like, you know, the classic example of this is,
 you had GPT-3, which was this amazing,
 you could look at it and say, "This is crazy."
 It's like, unlike anything we were able to do before,
 but kind of like, you know,
 I don't know how to explain it to my mom.
 And then you give it this chat GPT wrapper
 that's just like, "Oh, the thing you wanna do with it
 is talk to it."
 And then boom, it takes over the world.
 I think there's gonna be stuff like that
 that happens in media.
 I don't think we know, I don't think we even know
 what all the formats are gonna be.
 And I think the only stance you can take,
 or the stance that we take right now
 is kind of just like being willing, being open minded,
 being willing to kind of like play and explore and watch
 and like test the fences, push the boundaries,
 see what's becoming possible,
 see what's working, kind of like be willing
 to be on the forefront of change as it happens,
 and to like bring those, bring the latest cool stuff back
 and like give it to people in a way
 that they can actually wrap their hands around it
 and use it.
 There's a lot of things, right?
 There's a lot of things that are possible right now
 that if you like know how to use hugging face,
 you can like get AI models to do,
 but it's just like it's taking that
 and like making it actually accessible to people
 is like a very, there's a very powerful moment
 right now for that.
 - Yeah, there's still several layers of friction.
 You also asked what has to be the constant,
 the nucleus that sits there
 and is always true for self-stack.
 And that is kind of the model.
 This model that gives the creator ownership and power
 that they can totally own their audience
 and the export it from a mailing list,
 that they get supported directly by their audience
 and that the platform that undergirds it,
 which is sub-stack in this case,
 can only succeed if they succeed.
 And if you keep those three things in harmony,
 then all sorts of like expressions of culture
 and contents are possible as long as that thing
 is stable and constant.
 - Hey, Michelle's an old media person who became--
 - Not that old.
 - In my four days.
 - I knew, I was waiting for it.
 I knew it was coming.
 - They became a new media person
 and at the vanguard of this movement.
 I'm curious how you think about the positioning
 of these prestige brands of the past and present.
 Like if you were to be air-dropped
 into insert prestige media brand here,
 the Atlantic, the Economist, the New Yorker,
 like what would be the things that you would do
 when you were a hundred days sprint
 to try and prepare these publications
 for the next couple decades?
 - I think something that's caught of their identity
 doesn't have to change,
 which is to like maintain these high quality standards
 and journalistic ethics
 and retain this sort of prestige aura.
 But accept at the same time
 that their general reach is gonna probably shrink.
 They're not gonna be able to command
 the kinds of audiences that they once did
 and the heyday of these publications
 when there are fewer options and fewer choices for audiences.
 I think those things,
 like the best of them can always have a place.
 A lot of them will continue to struggle
 and some in many of them will probably disappear over time
 just because they have this business model sickness
 that is gonna be impossible to recover from.
 The world is different in 2025 than it was in 1925
 and a lot of these things were born.
 But there is also ample opportunity to rebuild,
 to build the institutions of the next era,
 things like the generalist
 or the ancler or the bull walk,
 the free press, all of which are being built on sub stack
 and can benefit from these tools
 that let you create an instant media business
 and then plug into a subscription machine,
 which is the sub stack network and the notes feed,
 the recommendations, et cetera, that helps you grow
 just by dent of being part of this enormous community.
 And I don't think there's anything
 that should prevent those existing institutions,
 the prestige players like the New Yorker
 or the Atlantic or whatever,
 from participating in this new economy
 and from building for it too.
 And so if I were the New Yorker,
 I wouldn't be investing all my resources
 and just growing the New Yorker magazine bigger
 and bigger and bigger,
 but I'd be looking for opportunities to foster new voices
 and build a new generation of editorial products
 in the sub stack ecosystem
 or in some other ecosystem that resembles sub stack
 that has a similar sort of rules
 and a similar sort of ecosystem,
 similar like community of people who care about culture.
 So it's like a little bit gloomy for the people
 who are still trying to run off the fumes
 of a business model invented in 1925,
 but it's very bright for those who are willing
 to embrace the business model of 2025.
 - Amazing, well, we like to end each episode
 with some lighter but also philosophical questions.
 So maybe we'll jump into those.
 The first one is one of my favorite
 and I try and ask as many people as I meet this question
 because it's just a secret way for me
 to build a great reading list.
 Chris, maybe you can start us off.
 If you had the power to assign a book to everyone
 on earth to read and understand what book would you pick?
 And you can't say Hamish's and say in my book.
 - Please, just forget that one exists.
 - Maybe I don't.
 I don't agree with the premise of the question.
 I would pass.
 I would just say like,
 hey, I don't think forcing everybody to read
 and understand something interesting.
 I'm like, I'm like, yeah.
 What would be bad about that?
 - Yeah, I guess like forcing people to read
 and care about something that just I think is important
 feels immoral to me.
 I'm like, it should be, you know,
 I'd want people to read the thing that they read,
 that they want, that matters to them.
 And I don't, I don't, I'm not so confident
 in my own worldview or my own taste
 or my own model of the world to think
 that it should be forced on everybody.
 - That's a very interesting answer in its own right.
 So I think you're the first to center.
 I've come across, Hamish.
 - Nothing if not disagreeable.
 - Would you venture to prescribe a book to us all?
 - I'd massively embrace this opportunity
 to force the culture that I prefer on the masses.
 - It's not forcing you to drive the point
 and I want to clarify. - No one's, no one's,
 you know, being harmed in this, in this thought experiment.
 - I was, I was envisioning everyone strapped down
 on a gurney with a book forced in front of their eyes
 and the words to get pushed into the brain.
 - Yes, exactly.
 - You know, I just, I might actually say the Canada retails.
 I've only read some of them.
 It's a huge work and it's hard to like fight
 through the pros of Chaucer.
 - You're assigning one that you haven't even read
 to be clear. - I read, I read a good deal.
 - You have not read and understood this,
 because you're already read and forced
 on everybody. - I just, I just forced,
 okay, I just require everyone to read
 and understand it at the level I understand it at,
 which is a rudimentary basic level
 because these stories, the storytelling is amazing
 and the language is beautiful
 and it's an exceptional mix of the profound
 and the profane.
 It's a total high low kind of culture book
 with important messages about humanity.
 Such like, not everything is as it appears
 and the ones who present themselves
 as the most virtuous are sometimes the ones
 who have the most corrosion of the soul.
 So, can retails get into it?
 Good one.
 Maybe you can get chatchy to like give you
 a tidy summary in modern vernacular.
 Okay, but that's my, that's my pick.
 Perfect. I'll see if Chris will,
 we'll join us on this one.
 - He's gonna teach you all of these questions.
 If that was his pose on the first what book
 do you think he was gonna read?
 What's he gonna do with the rest of these?
 - Well, yeah, it's hard for me to imagine.
 I look forward to seeing it.
 Maybe you will wriggle out of it.
 What's a practice that we should borrow
 from another culture or era?
 - Okay, I'm from New Zealand.
 My mum was a MÄori teacher.
 MÄori are the indigenous people of New Zealand.
 This is one I like default to a lot.
 Whenever they get up to talk publicly
 in front of the group,
 they acknowledge their ancestors.
 There's another kind of saying, I guess,
 called "Mataa Waka",
 where they are referring to sitting in the canoe
 and in the MÄori canoes,
 which they migrated from Farflunglands,
 from to New Zealand then.
 They paddle with their backs to where they're going
 and so they're looking at where they came from.
 And I think this is a very useful concept
 and honoring of what you're building on
 and what you're contributing to
 and moves you out of this particular moment
 that you exist in.
 So, Mataa Waka and acknowledging your ancestors
 and whenever you get up to speak in public,
 I think you're like very good grounding practices
 that remove some of the ego of your current life
 and help you build on something
 that is greater than yourself
 and greater even than the current moment you're in.
 - I love that.
 - Beat that, Chris.
 - Yeah, let's see.
 - I think we should.
 - Pillards like the Vikings.
 - Pillards like the Vikings.
 No, I mean, I think we should
 create new rituals.
 I think that the idea of having ritual,
 of having sort of like things that are kind of sacred
 or done repeatedly is a powerful sort of human technology.
 And I wouldn't advocate for adopt old religions
 in order to get those things.
 But I think the fact that we're missing those things
 is a bug.
 And I think we should be inventing new versions
 of the old forms.
 - He means Scientology, by the way.
 - Yeah, exactly.
 Final question, what will the historians
 a hundred years from now say about our current era?
 - How long is the current era in this hypothetical?
 - You could define it however you like, I suppose.
 - Whichever you could say the current era we're in
 is maybe, you know, 10 years long
 or maybe you actually this year stretches back 50 years
 because it's all part of the same movement.
 I leave that to your hypothetical historian.
 - If we could go with the 10 to 20 year timeframe,
 I would say this is gonna be looked at as the chaos era.
 This is a moment of transition between some major shifts
 with some major periods and technology and culture
 and the media that is creating a ton of volatility,
 a ton of power redistribution and chaos
 that is ultimately gonna lead to a new kind of order
 and something better.
 But in the moment feels messy as hell.
 - How does that strike you, Chris?
 - Good answer.
 - That's why I went first so you wouldn't say that first.
 - I do think this will be the AI transition.
 Maybe a way to put this is there are little decisions
 and little quirks of fate and butterflies
 flapping their wings happening right now.
 And it's hard to predict which ones these are,
 but I think the moment where this technology is coming
 about where we're figuring out how to build it,
 where we're figuring out how to build a culture around it,
 there's some moment of extreme leverage.
 And so I think people will look back
 and in order to explain a lot of how their world
 is a hundred years from now,
 they'll be able to go back and look at a blog post
 that you wrote, Mario, that said something,
 that had some ripple that caused some AI researcher
 to think about something or I think we're getting
 to lay the foundations for a new era
 of technological civilization.
 Which is exciting.
 - That's a perfect note to end on.
 I knew I would enjoy this conversation,
 but I think I enjoyed it even more
 than I might have imagined.
 So thank you both for being here and for chatting with me.
 - Thank you, thank you very much.
 - That's it.
 Thank you for listening to this episode
 of the Generalist Podcast.
 Please subscribe on Apple Podcasts, Spotify,
 or your preferred podcast app.
 Ratings and reviews help others discover these discussions.
 So if you enjoyed the conversation,
 I'd be grateful if you could take a moment to leave one.
 For all past episodes and more,
 visit us at thegeneralist.substack.com.
 See you next time as we continue to explore the future.
 (upbeat music)
 [MUSIC PLAYING]
