--- METADATA START ---
Show: a16z Podcast
Episode: Where Crypto Meets AI with Chr…
Host: David George
GUESTS: Chris Dixon 
Guests: Chris Dixon
Source URL: https://podcasts.apple.com/us/podcast/where-crypto-meets-ai-with-chris-dixon-david-george/id842818711?i=1000710657237
--- METADATA END ---

1
How will the money flow?
2
How will copyright work?
3
There's all sorts of interesting questions that you can kind of think of downstream.
4
I think those are all questions that, in some ways, crypto can address.
5
They have the leading state-of-the-art models in Gemini across a bunch of different domains.
6
So, what should they do?
7
They should throw out search.
8
What is it, 100-something billion in revenue?
9
Yeah, it's the best business out there, and I do not envy them.
10
There's all these people talking about P-Doom and Terminator stuff, and then they're talking about models.
11
They sort of be the really tactical or really like cosmological scale or something.
12
My sense is a lot of the actual interesting questions are sort of in the middle.
13
Today's episode was recorded live at A16Z's 2025 LP Summit.
14
General partners Chris Dixon and David George, two leaders at the forefront of crypto, AI, and growth stage investing, discuss the real state of crypto, the rise of AI-native apps, and how platform shifts are reshaping where value is created.
15
We also explore what defines a winning company and founder in this era of exponential acceleration.
16
Let's get into it.
17
As a reminder, the content here is for informational purposes only, should not be taken as legal business, tax, or investment advice, or be used to evaluate any investment or security, and is not directed at any investors or potential investors in any A16Z fund.
18
Please note that A16Z and its affiliates may also maintain investments in the companies discussed in this podcast.
19
For more details, including a link to our investments, please see a16z.com forward slash disclosures.
20
Chris, obviously, you spend the vast majority of your time in crypto.
21
Yeah.
22
Talk about what the state of crypto is today, where are we at, what's most important.
23
People probably know the last four years have been a tricky time on the regulatory policy side, and so that's really kind of set us back a little bit.
24
But on the positive side, the infrastructure has gotten much better.
25
So one of the big goals was to be able to send money for under one penny and under one second.
26
So that's great.
27
So the core blockchain infrastructure has gotten much better.
28
For those tracking it, stablecoins have grown dramatically in usage.
29
It's now in the trillions of dollars higher than Visa per month.
30
So that's been really good.
31
And that's, by the way, not correlated to trading volume and things.
32
So it's not speculative use cases.
33
It seems like real use cases.
34
So that's been great.
35
Yeah, talk about some of the use cases, like maybe stablecoins, double-click for a second.
36
I think you called it WhatsApp moment for money.
37
What do you mean by that?
38
What are some of the big use cases?
39
So sort of like when we go to DC, for example, explaining blockchains and stablecoins is it's essentially digital services where you remove the intermediaries.
40
So instead of having to send money through having an issuing bank and a merchant bank and Visa and a payment processor, you have a blockchain, but it's essentially acting like a service provider with very lightweight intermediaries.
41
And so in the same sense that like WhatsApp came along when you had to use like SMS and you'd pay for international payments and there were like all of these little like really, it wasn't really one network.
42
It was a whole bunch of like sub-networks.
43
And you had WhatsApp and other kind of over-the-top networks, which created a single unified network.
44
And so you can think of stablecoins as you're creating a single global unified network without intermediaries that allow you to make payments.
45
Right.
46
And that turns out once you get the infrastructure down to one penny, one second, it turns out to be quite popular and useful.
47
So that's really exciting.
48
And hopefully for those following it, we're trying to get legislation and that will, I think, further accelerate it because you've got essentially, think of it as a network effect, and you've got 90, probably 5% or some percentage of the nodes on a network that right now don't feel like they can participate in the network.
49
So like banks and other kinds of more conservative financial institutions.
50
And once we have legislation, that will unlock that.
51
And then, the exciting thing about the stablecoin thing, right, is the next thing, once you have money flowing through it, well, why not loans?
52
Why not stocks?
53
Why not treasury bills?
54
And so, it's sort of a stepping stone to a whole bunch of other things.
55
So, that's been very positive.
56
The negative side, as I mentioned, on the regulatory side, we had this all-out assault by the last administration on the space, and that just had all of these negative effects.
57
Essentially, we lost four years or something, I would say, in a lot of ways.
58
And not only did it mean that the projects that were invested in had to really limit their product development, but it also, I think, scared off a lot of entrepreneurs from even entering the space.
59
And so, we're sort of recovering from that now.
60
I think, all things considered, given that, like, we're in a really good spot, given all the drama of the last four years.
61
Yeah, yeah, absolutely.
62
Yeah, I mean, the stablecoin thing to me is one of the items that has become mainstream in the crypto world now, or is starting to become mainstream.
63
For those of you who followed last week, Stripe had their big product conference, and one of the big things they talked about, they did their biggest acquisition ever.
64
They bought a stablecoin company, and it was one of the biggest parts of what they spoke about in terms of product advancements and their focus areas.
65
So, quite optimistic with you on that.
66
Yeah, they spent quite a bit of their time.
67
And for those who don't know, like Stripe has a mixed history of crypto, they got into it a long time ago.
68
They co-created a project called Stellar, and then they got really down on it for a long time.
69
It wasn't working.
70
And now, if you watch them on various podcasts and in their demo day, they're very, very excited.
71
A lot of their use cases are cross-border, they're like treasury management.
72
So, that's, I think, like Space Ag, like Starlink, like uses it to move money from one country to another, things like this.
73
Yeah, like Scale AI has people they have to contract with, they have to pay in different countries, is the simplest way to actually pay them.
74
But there's all these sort of secondary benefits, right?
75
It's not just the lower pricing.
76
They were talking about this on a podcast recently, it's also the PDF, and it's wrong.
77
But if it's all fully programmable, you can build essentially like a reputation system and fully automate the full thing and have a whitelist system and all the kind of modern bells and whistles you want to have.
78
So that's exciting.
79
And I'm hoping that's, as I mentioned, a stepping stone to many other.
80
We have obviously a lot of speculative use cases on crypto, but what we really want are non-speculative use cases, right?
81
Things that are like real products that aren't around trading and things.
82
And so that's been a bright spot.
83
Yeah.
84
The stat of stablecoin volume from the previous year, I couldn't believe it when I read it.
85
But to be at the same level of visa is extraordinary.
86
So quite optimistic.
87
Let's shift gears.
88
So let's talk about Gen AI.
89
Maybe to start, just what are your initial impressions as a student of technology?
90
Yeah, I mean, for those of us who've been in technology for a long time, as I have, it's amazing to see.
91
I mean, it's obviously incredible.
92
And it's particularly AI because AI has been 80 years or so of development and has gone through waves and really became roll your eyes at some point.
93
People would often roll their eyes in the 2000s and 2010s of AI just because it had been around so long and hadn't really lived up to its promises.
94
I mean, people in the 50s and 60s were saying, you know, there's going to be, there's a 1960s, there's an expert system, actual stock market kind of bubble.
95
So to finally see it work is amazing.
96
It's interesting with technology, right?
97
Because in some ways it's predictable, in some ways it's unpredictable.
98
The predictable part, if you go back and look at like Ray Kurzweil's books from like 20 years ago, and there were a bunch of other examples, they would have these charts where they would plot out the kind of Moore's Law type improvement in GPUs and then compare it to like a human, you know, how many nodes would you have, how many parameters in your model, and how does that compare?
99
I remember there's one in like the deep learning textbook, and it's like, how does that compare to a bird and a human?
100
And someone was just talking about like Ray Kurzweil one.
101
On the one hand, on the other hand, I don't think many people predicted that generative AI would be the kind of leading, the leading use case over more like, I don't know what you call analytical AI or whatever, you know, just sort of like an analyzing language and financial statements, right?
102
The fact that it would actually be a creative thing.
103
I think you'd always hear, you know, oh, it's going to come for the truck drivers or something, right?
104
In fact, it's coming for like the laptop.
105
It came for the laptop and the laptop.
106
Yeah, I mean, like product managers and email jobs.
107
Like the greatest risk.
108
I don't think many people predicted that.
109
It was coming for creatives before like robotic tasks.
110
It's surprising, back that long.
111
I mean, I think Martine and Sarah and Eric were just talking about it.
112
There's all sorts of interesting AI-specific questions of what are the applications, where is the value going to accrue?
113
I'm sure you've thought a lot about this.
114
People talk about applications, foundation models, chips, cloud service providers.
115
Lots of interesting questions.
116
Probably my colleagues and you and colleagues in the other verticals are more qualified to talk about.
117
I mean, I can pontificate, but I think they're the experts.
118
Your pontificating is pretty good.
119
I think they're the experts.
120
But what I like to sometimes do is think a little orthogonally.
121
Like, well, one thing is I always like to think about second-order effects of technology, right?
122
So, you know, you go back and you look at the automobile, and the first order effect was you can go from point A to point B faster, right?
123
The second order effect was highway systems and transportation and suburbs and all these other kinds of things that happened as a consequence later on.
124
I think of crypto as being a second order effect of social media.
125
So you go back 20 years ago and I was thinking about social media.
126
I was working on it.
127
And you would say, okay, someday people have social media and anyone in the world will be able to have a voice and share their expertise.
128
And that was a first order effect.
129
And that happened, of course.
130
But the second order effect is now like crypto as an example.
131
If you didn't have social media, think about it, someone would come up with Bitcoin, and the New York Times would be like, New York Times would say this is stupid, and then the Washington Post would say it's stupid, and then the Financial Times would say it's stupid, and then it'd be over.
132
Or maybe there'd be like a magazine or something.
133
Like, there'd be no way to evangelize it and create a community around it the way that all the stuff, of course, happens through social media.
134
I think the things that have happened with politics, the Trump stuff, and populism, and just all the radical changes in culture.
135
And I think we're just in the early innings of all the second-order effects of social media, right?
136
But that's interesting.
137
So, I think one question with AI is: what will be the second-order effects there?
138
One thing I think about, just because my interest area is like in media, so you know, the first-order effect of generative AI, right, is you can make obviously like an illustration, you can make videos, and obviously that stuff will improve.
139
And I think very soon, it seems like in two years, you'll have people making future-length films.
140
Films, games, yeah, and that's what happens.
141
But then, an analogy I would use is like to photography.
142
So, when photography first started really going mainstream, there was a lot of angst around it, you know, in the artistic community.
143
And the artists at the time were doing representational art, and they were like, What's the role of the artists in this world?
144
And of course, what ended up happening is, at least in the high art world, they moved into abstract art and away from representational art.
145
And then, of course, photography proliferated.
146
But then, a really interesting new thing happened, right, which is you had film.
147
And so, film obviously requires photography, but is a new form of media that couldn't exist until you had photography get to a certain level of advancement, right?
148
And so, you could say that photographs were the, in my vernacular, the skewmorphic application of cameras, and film was the new native form of media, right?
149
It was a form of media that couldn't exist before.
150
So, I think one interesting question to ask with AI, with generative AI, is: of course, it will make it easier to create existing forms of media, but will there be new forms of media that simply couldn't have existed before?
151
And my guess is.
152
It always becomes native over time, but it starts to skew morphic.
153
Yeah.
154
And then another question you'd ask is: what are the business models going to be in that world, right?
155
When content is abundant, presumably the cost of content goes down, the value goes down, but people like to engage with other people.
156
They like to engage with artists.
157
There's a human factor to it.
158
There's community formation.
159
Presumably people will like, you know, if there's a hundred different generative AI science fiction universes, people will probably like the universes that their friends like because there's a community aspect to it.
160
How will the money flow?
161
How will copyright work?
162
There's all sorts of interesting questions that you can kind of think of downstream.
163
And I think those are all questions that in some ways crypto can address.
164
I think at a high level, the way I'd think about it is, obviously, AI lets you create intelligent systems.
165
What crypto is really about is not about intelligence, it's about coordination.
166
It's about solving collective action problems and coordination problems, which is, I think of it as an orthogonal set, a different set of problems to solve versus intelligence.
167
So you just take a typical problem of, well, money is obviously a coordination problem.
168
How do you shift value around the world?
169
How do you get everyone to agree on certain standards?
170
How do you do capital formation in the internet era?
171
That's a collective action question, right?
172
Of like, how do you get all these people together to do something?
173
But arguably so is, you know, maybe you want to build housing.
174
Like that's probably partly an intelligence problem, partly a bunch of physical real-world problems, somewhat of regulatory problems, and some of them are collective action coordination problems, right?
175
So there's sort of a series of things that you need to make progress.
176
And some of those things fall in the category for coordination, collective action, and that's where we think our kind of building networks on blockchains fits in.
177
Yeah, an economy for the internet.
178
A couple data points on that.
179
Sarah and Martine and Eric were talking about it, but not all the technology waves are the same, but they often rhyme, right?
180
One commonality is just this sort of Moore's Law improvement of things, right?
181
So you talked about infrastructure on the crypto side, going from 10 bucks to send to a penny to send.
182
You know, the AI side, there's been a 99% reduction in cost over the last two years.
183
It looks like that will continue to happen.
184
At the same time, you're also seeing dramatic improvements in model quality.
185
So I'm quite optimistic for that reason.
186
I think if you give it a set of tasks that are slightly higher order, I think the models are currently doubling their capabilities every seven months.
187
So that's only one dimension of improvement, right?
188
Because you also have the chips.
189
Yeah, of course.
190
Yeah, chips.
191
I mean, look, the chips continue to get better, and that will help to improve the cost over time, too.
192
You know, I think we could talk about like where value will accrue and business models and all that stuff, but clearly the chips companies are some of the best companies in the world.
193
Applications and the model companies that leg up into the application layer, there's going to be a tremendous amount of value.
194
But I think it does beg the question: as you go from skew morphic application or these technologies into native, there probably does need to be a different economy associated with them, just number of transactions, AI to AI payments.
195
Talk about what you think may happen there.
196
So I would expect, I mean, the way I look at it is in past kind of megatrends, mobile, social, cloud, they all reinforced and intersected with each other.
197
And I would expect the same thing here if we're right about crypto and it seems like AI is obviously happening.
198
But, you know, I would expect all these things to intersect.
199
Yeah.
200
I think there's sometimes a tendency, like in the crypto world at least, for people to feel like the other sectors are competitive with them or something.
201
And we're always saying that's not the case.
202
In fact, you have to lean into it.
203
It also has just a thing of services, and now we're just talking backstage about how it seems like Google might be under threat now, just from a search perspective, you should talk about that.
204
It's interesting.
205
But if that's the case, you're just going to have a new game and new incumbents are popping up, and there's an opportunity to create new architectures and new services around those.
206
Yeah, I mean, the Google thing we were talking about backstage, I was showing Chris a chart that our team put together that showed the volume of the AI-native activity against Google queries, and they're just moving in opposite directions.
207
It's not nearly the severity of the line on the Google direction as it is just because of the scale, but you can see it happening.
208
And where it's happening right now is knowledge retrieval.
209
So it's like the lowest monetizing forms of Google's revenue model.
210
So, yes, they may be losing query volume, but people still go there to search for insurance and vacation rentals and the most valuable search terms.
211
But we're getting pretty close to the point where you can actually conduct business activity on the internet without having to go through Google.
212
That will be with these agents, is there?
213
Yeah, agents, yeah, yeah.
214
Agents is such a loaded term.
215
Our infrastructure team just did a good podcast, which you should listen to, which is like what is an agent.
216
But basically, it's the ability of the AI to go conduct business on your behalf.
217
And I think we're getting pretty close to having it be able to do that, some at least lower-level tests of things that you would do on the internet.
218
But the problem that Google has is they have the classic innovators dilemma.
219
Like, the search business model that they have is so profitable.
220
I've talked about it.
221
It's one of the best business models of all time.
222
But it's hard to dislodge yourself from that because it's so good, but it's an inferior product experience.
223
The other thing about Google is not only was all of the technology actually invented there, which is the craziest thing to think about.
224
We backed Noam Shouzier and all these other guys, and they're all there.
225
It's just Xerox Spark all over again.
226
It's just Xerox Park all over again, but with an even better business model attached to it.
227
But they actually have the best models right now.
228
Like they have the leading state-of-the-art models in Gemini across a bunch of different domains.
229
So what should they do?
230
They should throw out search.
231
What is it, 100-something billion in revenue?
232
Yeah, it's the best business out there, and I do not envy them.
233
One of the things that we talk about a lot is: do you back the founder-led company, or do you back the company that's run by the professional manager?
234
Yeah.
235
Like it would take a very audacious move for Google to just say, I'm going to do what's needed and embrace the future.
236
The thing is, even then, even if they did that, even if they put in like a chat thing, the problem is the whole business model is predicated on getting the link and not the actual product, right?
237
I mean, the whole thing is.
238
Well, the promise they make to users and the other side, right, is that we will deliver you the traffic.
239
Yeah.
240
We actually should talk about that because you've written about that.
241
You and I have talked about that.
242
But the concept of breaking the original pact of the internet, you should talk about that and what you think some of the potential solutions for it are.
243
Yeah, in my book, I have a chapter on it called A New Covenant, essentially.
244
The idea is that it was never explicit, but over the last 20 years or so, the covenant, quote unquote, was formed between kind of distribution, you know, search and social, kind of the places you first go on the internet to discover, and then the content sites downstream from that.
245
So you go and you search for a recipe, you search for a news article, and then you click through.
246
And the basic kind of deal that evolved was that if the content site lets you take a snippet and show something in exchange for you send me some amount of traffic, right?
247
And occasionally that was broken, like with the one boxing.
248
So one boxing is when Google takes the content and just puts it at the top, located with Wikipedia.
249
I was on the board of stack.
250
That was their biggest fear in life: instead of people clicking through and going to the website, they would just put the answer up there, right?
251
This famously happened with Yelp, and then they've done it with Travel, shopping, but like to limited success.
252
But in that framework, you can think of AI, like ChatGPT, as one boxing the whole internet, right?
253
It's just like it gives you the answer, you don't need to click through, right?
254
And so, in that world, how does the other millions of websites, what is their business model?
255
It was dependent on getting that flow.
256
And you're seeing like these things like perplexity, and I think ChatGPT too, they sometimes put links in there and stuff.
257
But the reality is, I think that's to be nice or something, but like in the end, you don't really need that if it's a good AI.
258
You just get the answer, right?
259
Yeah.
260
And so, presumably, that'll be reflected in the click-through rates and things like that.
261
And so, the question is: do you just let all of that stuff kind of atrophy and that's it?
262
And the internet's these 10 websites, or do you have to think about a new business model that doesn't involve getting this flow of linked traffic?
263
And that's an interesting question.
264
I kind of just raised, I don't have a full answer to it, but I feel like this is the kind of thing that we should be having discussions about.
265
And so, I wrote about it and I've talked about it, hoping to trigger a discussion.
266
It hasn't really worked.
267
To me, that's the kind of stuff that, like, the obvious next couple of year consequence.
268
I mean, look, I commit to it having worked on the internet my whole career, so I think about the internet and what's going to happen to the internet.
269
And so, to me, that's a pressing issue.
270
It's also an issue of like, that's a huge income stream, and there's a lot of jobs and small businesses.
271
And so, what are we thinking?
272
Like, how will that evolve from a societal point of view?
273
I feel like in the AI world, like, you know, on Twitter at least, there's all these people talking about p-doom and terminator stuff, and then they're talking about models that are sort of either really tactical or really like cosmological scale or something.
274
My sense is a lot of the actual interesting questions are sort of in the middle.
275
They're not like Terminator coming to kill you, but more like this is clearly going to change the structure of the internet.
276
It's going to change business models, and like, how do we think through how to respond?
277
Like, I think the interesting questions are kind of, I would say, more middle-zoom level, not cosmological.
278
Yeah, I'd say you can see it initially being disrupted in websites that are knowledge-based and where the model can consume the knowledge.
279
Chegg is the best example, right?
280
Which is basically it was a high-flying public company.
281
It's a place where kids would go to get homework help and study guides and things like that.
282
And then overnight got hit by a ton of bricks and it's obviated the need for it.
283
But you would need someone to create that content in the first place for the next thing.
284
So I think that highlights maybe the go-forward problem.
285
Yeah, I mean, that's a question.
286
Like, if you kill the business model that first created Stack Overflow, you're not going to get future Stack Overflows.
287
And maybe that's an issue for the AI models, or maybe it isn't.
288
Maybe you can just pay for it or you can use automated tools or synthetic systems.
289
I'd like to believe there's a future, though, where there's like a broader internet that creates that.
290
Yeah, I mean, I think we want a business model for things like music and movies, and you want humans involved, and they're going to create new genres and have new ideas.
291
And hopefully, those things will then feed into AI systems and they'll help accelerate that.
292
But I believe the ultimate outcome is some kind of symbiotic relationship.
293
Separately, there's sort of a human-flourishing kind of question of people want fulfilling, meaningful work, and hopefully all these new systems and tools fit into that somehow, right?
294
I do think there's some risk to it.
295
And to your point on skewmorphic versus native, the way the most dominant business models on the internet evolved is actually toward a new native form of advertising, right?
296
Like we're dunking on Google for being the incumbent, but they did create a new form of advertising.
297
Similarly, Facebook and Instagram created the feature.
298
So my hope would be that the AI companies, once we have the native applications, also come up with some native business model that's a different form.
299
Maybe it's like commerce-based or the piece that's ad-based looks something more like an affiliate.
300
That is like a dirty term, but like something like that that actually finds a way to compensate the website or whatever.
301
But it's so early.
302
Yeah, it's interesting.
303
I mean, you know this better than I do, but if you look at the last unicorns, like how many are ad-based in the last 15 years?
304
Like two?
305
Like the vast majority are charging their freemium, their enterprise.
306
So that's one question.
307
It's just is ad-based even going to happen in the future?
308
I think it might go.
309
I think it just goes in, well, in the fullness of time, everything becomes an ad business, right?
310
So that's like the joke in consumer internet.
311
But, you know, the best businesses in the world are ad-based, right?
312
And they are the best businesses in the world because the users give the content and to the user it's free and then they're compensated via ads.
313
And so, you know, I think there's a question of how it will play out.
314
Will it just be a simple subscription or is there going to be something more freemium that comes along?
315
I would bet on the latter.
316
I would bet on the latter.
317
But yeah, I think these go in waves.
318
I mean, I think that's the biggest thing.
319
There's not a lot of new ad-based business models because there hasn't been until now much of an opportunity for startups to encroach upon consumer time spent, which is where the advertising comes from.
320
People are talking about, you know, there's a whole industry around SEO, and now there's going to be a whole industry around convincing the AI model to promote your product.
321
When you ask it what the best detergent is, there'll be a whole industry around, you know, that infiltrating the training data so that they promote.
322
For those of you close to the internet, we would all welcome the gamified SEO stuff to go away.
323
Let's talk about market share.
324
What about what determines winners and losers and competitive differentiation, moats, barriers to entry, all that stuff?
325
Yeah, I think of most of what I've done on the investment side in my career has been sort of network businesses.
326
Crypto is all networks.
327
Basically, everything we invest in is a network.
328
And so I always look at the world through that lens of like, I think networks are the best.
329
They're my personal favorite types of investments because of the defensibility.
330
Once you build it, they can be very capital efficient, you know, a relatively small amount of money and get bigger and have defensibility there.
331
So that's the kind of lens I look at it through.
332
I don't know how much that's happening in AI.
333
It feels like a lot of AI doesn't have network effects, but they have brand effects and technical effects.
334
You know much better than me.
335
We have a lot of other challenges in crypto, but one thing we have is I think once it works, like Ethereum, Solana, Uniswap, whatever, once it works, there's a very clear defensibility story.
336
So that's the good news.
337
AI side, I'd love to hear your thoughts because you're the expert.
338
Like, how do you build defensibility?
339
And it seems like right now there's five to ten companies with comparable foundation models as an example.
340
Yeah, and then on the consumer side, one with all the traction, right?
341
And so, yeah, right now there's no network effect, at least as far as we can see.
342
I agree that network effects are the strongest form of a competitive moat.
343
Chris always jokes that there's only two things that give you competitive differentiation in any industry.
344
There's network effects and enterprise selling.
345
Because all these discussions we always have is other things like data and distribution, all these other things.
346
Those are the two things that if you just go through and count like the biggest market cap company, it tends to be those two things are dominant.
347
Yeah.
348
The only things.
349
Yeah, this is the thing that we're wrestling with right now in AI because we've now gotten to the point where there's about a billion monthly active users of consumer AI applications.
350
And this has grown significantly faster than predecessor companies, Google, Facebook, TikTok.
351
And in the case of TikTok, they actually grew through paid customer acquisition.
352
This is so remarkable because it's effectively been all organic growth.
353
And that's super unique in consumer.
354
So we've gotten to this incredible scale.
355
There's a lot of usage.
356
There's a lot of monetization, but there is no network effect.
357
And so how durable is that customer relationship is something that we wrestle with all the time.
358
And I don't have a great answer for it.
359
I think there will probably be network effects that do emerge, and they could be built around certain product features or model capabilities that create a different kind of user lock-in with the vendor as opposed to a user lock-in with the rest of their network as it has been in the last social wave.
360
But it's early.
361
It's too early to call.
362
You tell me, but it seems like the smart folks like you are shifting from thinking the value is going to be in the foundation models to value is going to be in the applications and the chips and sort of a barbell effect.
363
Is that right?
364
Yeah, I think that it's becoming clearer to me and to us, including infrastructure group, you know, everybody, we all sit around and talk about this stuff all the time.
365
Clearly the chips and then clearly the end user applications.
366
And there's a tremendous amount of effort being exerted from a bunch of the ecosystem players to commoditize the middle of that, right?
367
The model layer, the simple API serving.
368
And there's different incentives for why that's the case.
369
For the cloud companies, the ones that don't have their own models, they would like to commoditize that because they want to keep the customer power and they want that.
370
And we could go vendor by vendor, but there's different incentive structures.
371
But right now, the prevailing view is simple serving via API is likely to face a tremendous amount of pressure.
372
Obviously, there's some big swing factors like open source and how much that continues to be pushed forward to the frontier because that's also putting a lot of pressure on the price and cost in a good way.
373
But we're very high conviction that at the application layer, you will have tremendous value, and at the chip layer, you will have tremendous value.
374
Beyond that, it's DBD.
375
And the crazy thing is, the applications are all so early, right?
376
And so there's only what, 10 or 20 of them that are really breaking out, but the ones that have broken out in an extremely meaningful way, much faster, as Sarah said, I think, than the predecessors.
377
So that's exciting.
378
So that's the sort of network effects piece.
379
The selling piece on the B2B side, that's very TBD.
380
We'll see.
381
But I think the selling software, just as before, is always going to be the same, and it'll be the same in this wave, too.
382
So on the market structure stuff, one of the things that we talk about a lot in the growth fund is like how much are things winner-take-all versus their sort of a distribution.
383
And the frameworks that we talk about all the time is this like idea of the Glen Gary, Glenn Ross market structure, which is Glen Gary, Glenn Ross.
384
You know, like Alec Baldwin comes in and he's putting on a contest and he walks in and he says, okay, we're going to have a contest today.
385
First prize, you get the Cadillac.
386
The second prize, you get a set of steak knives.
387
Third prize, you're fired.
388
And so we joke that oftentimes technology markets follow that same sort of distribution of outcome where the winner takes the vast majority, second place is playing for scraps, and third place is said.
389
I'm curious your take on that.
390
I believe that generally, I think, empirically is worn out.
391
I think there's nuances, like, how do you decide on what the category is, for example, right?
392
And you can divide the world up in different ways, and then, of course, great founders will move into adjacent categories, and so it's sort of more complicated.
393
But, I mean, look, we try to operationalize that in our investing, which is like our number one kind of rule of investing: is we say the best company in every credible category, right?
394
We are lighter on like less rigorous, not less rigorous, but more humble on the question of which categories are the best because we've just been, I think VCs in general and me in particular, I'll say, have been wrong about that, trying to predict will X be a thing, whatever, online dating and grocery delivery.
395
And I can't tell you how many debates I've heard on all these topics.
396
And it turned out the answer was if a bunch of entrepreneurs are working on it and they're smart, you should probably just assume that they're probably right and it will be a category.
397
And then the job of the investor becomes picking the best one.
398
And what's nice about that framework is that picking the best one is something you can actually institutionalize and have a process around and go meet all the competitors and have criteria and due diligence.
399
I believe that very much, the winner-take with the Glen Garrier kind of rule, and try and think of it as an important lesson for how we try to invest.
400
I think it's also important from a brand point of view.
401
Like, we want to say, like, when we invest, we want the message to be, like, this is the best company in the category.
402
Like, the category may or may not work, but this is the best one.
403
We've declared the winner.
404
Yeah.
405
And that helps you recruit and partner and all the kind of brand signaling around it.
406
So, I think that, and so, I don't know, I believe that it has been the case with the caveats of.
407
It just, and whether it's network effects, brand, I mean, we see it play out over and over with these, like Uber and Lyft.
408
People had all these debates.
409
I remember all these debates, like, there aren't really network effects, there shouldn't be a winner-take-all.
410
And if you look at the market caps, it is kind of winner-take-all, and it happens again and again in the cases where people thought there wasn't some obvious reason why there'd be a winner-take-all.
411
I mean, Google, people debated that for years early on.
412
There's no real network effect, it's just a brand effect.
413
I mean, I think we probably systematically underestimate brand effects in Silicon Valley, like it's a meaningful thing, and that's one of the reasons it is winner-take-all.
414
Yeah, so I very much believe in that, and I think it's important as an investor to really take that really, really seriously.
415
And it's also just painful to be in the number two or three, I will tell you, just like seeing the news articles every day and going to LP events and just talking about how you got it.
416
Everyone asking you about the other one better to miss the category than to get the steak knives, in my view.
417
Just don't just miss it.
418
They will miss it.
419
The steak knives are a tough prize.
420
Yeah, not competing in the contest at all.
421
Yeah, I actually think that framework that you just enumerated is one that has become really valuable inside the firm.
422
Last thing I want to ask you is just your approach to picking founders.
423
So, obviously, picking, you laid out the process, and a big part of the process or the biggest part of the process at the early stage is picking their founders.
424
So, what is your system and process for that?
425
Yeah, this is like a whole big topic.
426
So, I'll just try to be short.
427
We left 45 seconds.
428
Yes, but I think there's this concept, I think it's Peter Thiel's concept of like a founder that has a secret, like an earned secret, like somebody who's worked on it, like maybe they came from a AI lab or CS lab and worked on some technical thing for a long time, or they came from an industry, they came from the media business and worked for years on it and saw that there was a gap in the market.
429
But generally, like it's a sort of good ideas that look like bad ideas.
430
And just sort of the depth of knowledge.
431
I think the other thing would be cross-disciplinary knowledge because running a company is a combination of technical, product, business, and you can't separate those things, right?
432
It's a unified idea maze.
433
We use this metaphor of an idea.
434
It's a dynamic process.
435
You're running through the maze.
436
The world changes.
437
And it's a maze that cuts across product and tech and business.
438
And that's why the worst ones are when you outsort.
439
You have, oh, my cousin's a web designer doing, he's a CTO or whatever, that kind of thing.
440
Or likewise on the business side.
441
Like it has to be an integrated whole in either the founder or the co-founders because they have to make trade-offs across.
442
You know, sometimes you have to change the technology for a business reason.
443
You have to be able to navigate across these different disciplines.
444
So I think that, you know, like a lot of it too is like some of my better investments have been ones where I've just been deep in the space and I met with a lot of founders.
445
And then you kind of know from the meeting a little bit, like you have the meeting, you're like, wow, that person, I've spent like hundreds of hours on the space and I just learned a lot in that meeting.
446
And that person's really thought it through and they're really smart.
447
And hopefully you pre-diligence them in the sense that you've heard about them and they're referenced.
448
And there's not like a single thing.
449
There's like many, many factors when you go into evaluating founders.
450
And it is hard to spread a venture capital.
451
But those are a few highlights within the 40 seconds I had left.
452
So you can go back to one of the old blog posts about this and picking founders and the IDMAs and all that stuff.
453
And I think it's one of the clearest pieces of thinking on picking founders.
454
So with that, thank you.
455
I love chatting with you.
456
Yeah.
457
Thank you all.
458
Thanks for listening to the A16Z podcast.
459
If you enjoyed the episode, let us know by leaving a review at rate thispodcast.com/slash A16Z.
460
We've got more great conversations coming your way.
461
See you next time.