--- METADATA START ---
Show: N/A
Episode: Why compilers matter (w/ Lukas… - The Analytics Engineering Podcast
Host: Tristan Handy
GUESTS: Lucas Schulte
Guests: Lucas Schulte
Source URL: https://podcasts.apple.com/us/podcast/why-compilers-matter-w-lukas-schulte/id1574755368?i=1000707970980

--- METADATA END ---

 Hi, I'm Dan Poppy, the producer for the Analytics Engineering podcast.
 Before we get to this episode, I wanted to invite you to join Tristan May 28th at the 2025 DBT
 launch showcase for the latest features landing in DBT to empower the next era of analytics.
 Register now at getdbt.com. We'll see you there.
 Welcome to the Analytics Engineering podcast, featuring conversations with practitioners
 inventing the future of analytics engineering.
 In this episode, I speak with Lucas Schulte. Lucas is the co-founder of SDF,
 and he joined DBT Labs earlier this year as a part of our acquisition of the company.
 I have had the very distinct pleasure of getting to know Lucas over the past year,
 and I've come to really appreciate him as a human, but that's a story for another day.
 Today, Lucas and I talk about compilers. SDF is, at its core, a world-class SQL compiler.
 We talk about the components of a compiler and how they work, different types of compilers
 and their history, and how one of the most important roles of a compiler is to abstract
 over underlying infrastructure, whether that's hardware or operating system or browser.
 We then pivoted to data and how, as usual, the data ecosystem is a couple of decades behind
 the larger software dev ecosystem. We ended with a conversation about how the data world
 could look different with a true, multi-dialect SQL compiler and a robust package management
 ecosystem at its core. Needless to say, this is a world that I am very excited about living in.
 This was a fantastic conversation, and I think you will enjoy it. Without further ado, let's get into it.
 Lucas, welcome to the Analytics Engineering podcast. Before we dive into the main topic
 of the day, compilers, I want to give you an opportunity to just say hi to the audience
 and tell everybody a little bit about yourself. Hi, Tristan. Thanks for having me. I'm excited
 to be here. I never thought I'd be doing a podcast with you, to be totally honest, but
 here we are. It's great. Have you done a podcast before? I've done a handful, maybe.
 They're fun. Sometimes you don't really know where the conversation is going to go,
 and those are the ones where it gets real interesting. That's actually just on one with
 Anders. I'm Lucas. I'm one of the former co-founders of a company called STF Labs.
 We're working primarily on compiler technologies for SQL understanding.
 So specifically, SQL is different across different dialects, across different warehouses,
 and we wanted to build a unified tool chain for them. Before that, I initially studied
 electrical and computer engineering and have always been interested in slightly more
 low-level things and specifically building out tools for other people to use.
 What is a low-level tool that you can build in electrical engineering? We've been doing
 electrical engineering for a long time. Are people still innovating on brand new tool sets there?
 Yeah. Chips are getting smaller every year. There's new sensors that are coming out,
 and a lot of those sensors are exposed as platforms that other people can build on top
 of brands. So if you think about a light sensor or a heart rate sensor, you can use in a bunch
 of different ways or step counting. You can use it in a bunch of different ways.
 Did you work in that world in sensors? That was my sort of initial introduction to data,
 actually, was sensors and the logs that those things were throwing off.
 That's very cool. So you alluded to this in your intro. You joined DBT Labs as a part of an
 acquisition of your company. By the way, you're never a former co-founder. You're always a
 co-founder because it's just a thing that you did. Then no one can fire you from having
 co-founder to company. I think that it's fair to say that the core way that you think about
 the technology that you and your team built at SDF is a multi-dialect sequel compiler.
 I want to get back to the sequel part of that in a little bit, but maybe we can start
 more broad-based than just the compiler part of that. My guess is that basically everybody
 listening to this is going to be familiar with the term compiler and it's going to,
 on some level, have a conceptual understanding of what a compiler does. You write code,
 much of the code that we write is compiled into something that machines can understand.
 Fine. But you maybe can help us dive into this topic a little more at a little more depth.
 How would you define a compiler?
 Yeah. I mean, I think that the one sentence is essentially what you said, right? That's
 something that takes higher level of human readable code and translates, compiles,
 rewrites, code generates, lower level machine code that is much harder for humans to understand
 and much easier for machines to understand. Compilers typically have phases. This isn't
 like a one-shot process. They have a front end that deals with the language that you're working
 with. And then some middle component, usually that's called an IR, an intermediate representation.
 And then they have a backend and the backend takes that intermediate representation and
 then actually compiles and optimizes and generates the actual machine code that machines use.
 So compilers, it's a single word for a very, very complex process that happens all around
 us. It's like how computing works. It's amazing.
 I want to go deeper into the different phases and how all of it works. But in preparation for
 this, because I'm not a compiler historian, I was asking 03, I just got access to 03.
 I don't know if you played around with it yet. I found my experience so far to be a little
 bumpy. I think they're still refining. But I was asking it, who built the first compiler?
 Do you know? I actually don't know. I know Fortran is the first, like,
 people like Fortran as kind of the first real compiled language, but I'm curious who built
 the first compiler. So apparently, and this is like a language that I think none of us ever
 ever heard of, but it was Grace Hopper. It started being used in 1952. Cool.
 Like kind of neat. That's amazing. So we've been building compilers for a long,
 freaking time. What are these common elements that essentially all compilers you would expect
 to have? You talked about the front end of the back end. There's intermediate representations.
 How does it all come together? There's a lot of different ways that this
 comes together, quite frankly. Is that true? There's no single standard
 way that all compilers work. It is standard structurally, but exactly what happens.
 For example, there are interpreted languages like Python, and there's compiled languages,
 but somehow there's still a compiler that takes Python code and makes sure that it can actually
 run on your machine. Is that fair to say that even if it is not called a compiled language,
 like Python is an interpreted language, like you say, there still is a thing in the flow of
 executing Python code that one could refer to as a compiler. It's just called a JIT compiler,
 a just-in-time compiler because it does things like line-by-line, essentially.
 And it's really great for debugging. Writing Python code, it's very clear to see exactly
 where things are because, hey, we don't have to compile the entire project. You kind of get
 to step through line-by-line and follow along with what the compiler is doing. So yeah,
 although structurally things are similar, but practically under the hood, what's happening
 is different. I think the closest that you can get to something that is more universal
 is something like LLBM, where there's sort of an intermediate representation in the back end,
 a set of tools, tool chain that is common. But yeah, there's a lot of different ways
 for accomplishing the same thing. Okay, at the front end, there's some ability to
 kind of rip apart the text that a programmer has written and to turn that into symbols.
 Is that the right way to refer to that? Yeah, absolutely. Typically, there's
 a preprocessor and the preprocessor starts by work at DBT. DBT deals a lot with macros.
 Preprocessor, for example, will expand macros in a compiler and it'll get rid of
 comments and other things that are not necessary for the machine to be able to understand.
 And then there is a lexer and often a grammar that defines what the language should be.
 And then you get a symbolic representation, essentially tokens that you can work with.
 So yeah, absolutely. You start getting a lot of symbols, and then you package those symbols
 into a tree and then you're able to start doing syntax validation and semantic analysis and so
 on and so forth. You're using a lot of big words. Syntax validation and semantic
 understanding and I can totally imagine this kind of rough first stage where I ship
 my hundred lines of Python to adjust the time compiler and its first job is to just like
 understand the things that I have written and map those two concepts that it knows about.
 At some point, it needs to reach a level of certainty about what you are trying to express
 such that it can actually start to point to memory locations and perform mathematical
 operations and all of that. How do we proceed through those kind of subsequent stages?
 Yeah, so this is, now we're starting to get to the middle of the compiler.
 Maybe to sort of break down the, before I get to the middle, maybe to break down
 some of the bigger words, like the difference between syntax and semantics,
 they kind of feel like the same thing. But maybe the simplest way to think about it is,
 let's say you have a Python program, and you have whatever, x equals x plus one. You can write
 that has like syntax, that is a correct Python program, and then there's semantics.
 There's a meaning that, hey, we're increasing x by one, but you could also write that as
 x plus equals one, different syntax, but same semantics, because the result is still going
 to be x incremented by one. So this is kind of how to think about syntax versus semantics,
 where syntax defined, hey, what is a correct, an allowed way to represent something,
 and semantics are, hey, what does that actually mean? So semantics of x equals x, what is the
 idea that you're expressing? Yes, exactly. Yeah, that little analogy always helped me
 with us learning about this stuff. Yeah, syntax and semantics, once we have a semantic representation
 of our program in SQL and this is our logical plan, right? It's a logical representation
 of the algebra that we would like to do on some data. You had to the middle of the
 compiler, right? So going from a logical plan in SQL and to a physical plan, right, the physical
 representation of, hey, how many cores and how much memory and how are we going to load
 exactly what our K files or CSV files, that middle part can then do a whole bunch more
 optimization and additional analysis, and validation. And, you know, sometimes,
 I think in, in databases, right, we might have a better understanding of like the bytes
 scanned, for example, right, you have to have a very perfect understanding of the program,
 and you have to have a perfect understanding of the data that we're accessing to have a good
 understanding of, hey, how many bytes are we going to going to be working with?
 And then once you have that sort of transition from logical to physical plan, right, that you
 also start doing machine level, like optimizations, where, hey, maybe we are on an Intel machine,
 and we have exactly this instruction set, or we're on an ARM machine, and we have that other
 instruction set. And in modern toolchains, at least for things like Rust and C++, you have LLBM,
 which is this compiler tool chain that helps to go from this unified intermediate representation
 to many different backends, right, so many different target operating systems, CPU architectures,
 etc. This is very interesting to me, because it gets into the history of all of it. If you go back
 in time, not 75 years to Grace Hopper, but if you go back in time, I don't know, to the 70s
 and 80s, you're like fully in the mainframe era. And my understanding, certainly I was not
 practicing professional during this period, but my understanding is that in the mainframe era,
 the dominant characteristic of the software ecosystem was that all software was built to
 run on a particular type of mainframe, essentially, like that all the programs were compiled and
 really could only be run on that computing architecture. You couldn't have a universal
 binary that runs on Mac OS and also in Windows and also in Linux. You mentioned LLBM, have we been
 working on abstraction layers for multiple decades to provide this cross-chip set portability?
 I also was not a practicing professional in the mainframe era. But from my understanding,
 the software ecosystem is built on abstractions and increasingly higher levels of abstractions,
 even used to have to care about garbage collection and whether you're accessing the right bytes.
 That's a huge efficiency gain in the history of languages, right?
 Exactly. It's very analogous to what I think happened with compilers as well,
 where we talked about these three big phases, front and middle and back end. But within those,
 by creating sort of unified intermediate representations, you have a unified framework
 that you can build the back end off of to make sure, hey, we can compile this for
 a MacBook arm chip and a MacBook Intel chip. That I think is just years and years and years
 of work to make sure that you get the right intermediate representation that has the right
 level of flexibility and depth to be able to express everything that you want to
 express in C or C++ or Swift in this intermediate representation and can be compiled to many
 different architectures. So yeah, layers of abstraction, it's a beautiful thing.
 I get really curious about who has spent all the time to build all those layers of abstraction,
 because, and I don't want to fully get to here because I want to get here later, but
 similar layers of abstraction have not taken place or have not been created in the data ecosystem,
 I think, to correct as much of an extent. But like, who is it an academic community,
 is an open source community? Like, who builds compiler technology such that they have incentives
 to provide these layers of abstraction? I think the tech giants have invested a huge
 amount and then various academic institutions as well. LLVM was super heavily invested in
 at Apple in part because they started working on chipsets quite early. They started working
 on mobile chipsets. That's so interesting that Apple would do that because one of their big
 problems 20 years ago was that they had their own chips and nobody compiled stuff for their
 chips. So you can totally imagine why they would have an incentive to create this cross
 compatibility. Yeah, and they tried it a second time and they did much better. And I think a large
 in large part due to the ability of the advancements of compiler technology. This
 allows you to create an application that runs exactly the same on an Intel MacBook or
 an ARM MacBook with relatively little effort. And that used to be completely right.
 So you folks have been working in Rust with SDF for a long time. And what percentage of your
 time investment goes into making sure that you can chip Rust binaries on both Windows and Mac?
 I've never thought about that question. It's like negligible, right?
 It's less than you would think. Yeah, it's what it really, what it does,
 any compiled language requires you to set up infrastructure, right, for all the target
 architectures that you want to hit. But once the infrastructure is there,
 right, we just make sure that tests run the same test run on Windows that run on Linux
 that run on Mac. We test different architectures, but once the test infrastructure is set up,
 the tool chain is there to be able to automatically compile test, validate,
 etc. So our infrastructure looks almost identical on Windows as it does on Mac,
 as it does on Linux. And once that tool chain has been built up, using it costs only, you know,
 some GitHub actions minutes. Yeah, CI minutes. That's pretty neat. But you folks, you built
 the tool chain. You didn't have to like rewrite the application. You didn't have to build
 really any kind of foundational technology. You're like using stuff that exists to make that
 happen. Absolutely. And again, like LLBM sits under the hood of that.
 We've mentioned LLBM several times. Can you just define what that is? When did it become a thing?
 Yeah. It's it's been evolving for the last 15 years or so. It is a it's not a compiler,
 per se. It is a tool chain for compiler development that provides a unified or a series of
 unified intermediate representations. And then the backend to compile to target to target
 dialects. So what that means for like for development and Rust, for example, I can say, hey, here's my
 Rust, you know, code. Let us add a target. And then the Rust compiler creates an intermediate
 representation. And that intermediate representation is then turned into machine code for the target
 CPU and operating system micro architecture that you have selected. And that flexibility
 means that we can write code once, but build it for many different platforms simultaneously.
 Are there trade offs involved in LLBM? Like you got a bunch of portability, but
 your compiler is slower or I don't know. It used to be just like everybody now just does it this
 way. It used to be slower. Yeah. I think GCC for quite a while was faster. But I believe that
 in the last like five, six-ish years, I don't even think there's a significant performance
 penalty. So there's been real consolidation around the LLBM architecture. That's interesting.
 Okay. I perceive this as a weird thing about the compiler world. Maybe people who live in it,
 just kind of accept this as normal. But I find the act of bootstrapping to be such a weird
 thing. So compilers are one of these things that like are infinitely self-recursive.
 Because in order to build a compiler, you have to write programming code. And then, well,
 what are you going to use to interpret that programming code? Well, I get like a compiler.
 And so there's this weird, almost like mitochondrial DNA type of thing where like all compilers can
 be traced back to the original compiler because they've all been used to build each other.
 Can you explain like, what does it mean to bootstrap and how does that process work?
 You know, this kind of goes back to your more levels of abstraction, right? Like it is
 ultimately just adding new levels of abstraction. So I can't remember if it was written in C or
 C++, but the original Rust compiler was not written in Rust, obviously, right? Because Rust
 didn't exist yet. Right. It didn't exist. So then, you know, Rust became better.
 And then the maintainers of the Rust ecosystem decided to rebuild the Rust compiler in Rust.
 So now Rust is compiled in Rust and written in Rust. And is the results is the language
 Rust and the tool chain for Rust that lets you build Rust if you want to. So you are correct.
 It is, it is now fully self contained and they were kind of infinitely recursive in a funny way.
 I think that that plays out with like basically every language, because
 you clearly have to like get there from somewhere. So you have to choose another
 language. But then you probably don't want two different language skill sets in your community.
 Like one skill set in C++ that built the compiler in the first place. And then another
 skill set in Rust where people are actually building programs, you'd like one everybody to work in
 the same ecosystem. Yeah, it's a weird, weird dynamic. I would, is that saying that one day
 we will move from Rust into SQL and SQL would just be not the whole world is going to be
 everything is going to be SQL. Everything's going to be SQL. I think that might not be a
 great idea. Okay, we talked about Python a little bit and how it's interpreted. And
 there's just the time compiler. There's a couple of other ones, you know, we talked about C++
 and Rust. Those are kind of more pure compiled languages. What about Java? What about TypeScript?
 Java is compiled, but there is a, there's a automatic like a garbage collection mechanism.
 So it is, it is a, it feels like a slightly higher level compiled language than,
 than something like C or C++. And then TypeScript is actually interesting. Like TypeScript
 is a little bit more analogous to dbt and dbt SQL and that there are the intermediate
 representation, right, that you compiled, that you compiled down to is another language, right?
 It's actually just JavaScript, exactly. And then you interpret JavaScript. So this was an
 incredibly, I think incredibly clever design choice, because it meant that you have
 compatibility between TypeScript and anything that runs JavaScript in the same way that I
 think was incredibly clever of dbt to start with. And the, the, the intermediate representation
 being just SQL, right, even though dbt has all these other syntax and macro capabilities.
 But that means that dbt can run anywhere that SQL can run. And I think this helps,
 helps TypeScript to get a lot of adoption very quickly.
 So you can't take TypeScript and like create a binary out of that. That's just like not how
 TypeScript is built to work.
 No, you can package it up and you could, yeah, you could package it up in another thing that
 contains an interpreter, but you all, you still need the JavaScript interpreter.
 Interesting. Okay. You made a statement to me one time that I thought was a really,
 it was a throwaway for you, but it really has stuck with me. You said something like
 compilers are the foundation for every software ecosystem. Can you explain what that means?
 Like what, in what ways does a compiler enable a software ecosystem to either thrive or not thrive?
 How much, how much time do we have?
 It's a big, that's a big question. Yeah. I think that there's, there are two really big
 drivers and software in my opinion. One is, one is abstract, which we've talked about a
 little bit already. And the other one is standards.
 You want to have like one way to interface with a USB device, not, not 10 different ones.
 And the same, same goes for software, right? You want to have one clearly defined way to
 express a TypeScript application, not multiple, same goes for Python, same goes for C.
 So there's, you know, an SI, there's standards bodies, but they can only do so much.
 So very frequently, what you have is a sort of canonical compiler that is broadly accepted
 and compatible with some very, you know, base level, like bare metal CPU architecture, right?
 So you can take Python. It doesn't matter if you go to Azure. It doesn't matter if you go to
 a Raspberry Pi. It doesn't matter if you go to like a Mac arm machine, you can run
 the same Python code and get pretty much the same results guaranteed.
 And that is incredibly powerful because it enables portability of code.
 And it also enables portability of like mind share, right? People can move to different
 companies and take their learnings and add new contributions in different places and potentially
 reuse contributions from other places with a certain certainty that those things are going
 to work. It's kind of funny that, you know, I'm very novice when it comes to my software
 engineering skill set, but I like literally never think about will my Python output the same
 results in AWS and Azure and on my local machine and wherever else. But that doesn't happen
 automatically. That happens because there is a standardization effect that comes from
 compilers. Is that what you're saying? Yes, exactly. Like imagine there's so many libraries
 and package managers. You want those packages and libraries to behave the same, no matter
 who's installing it at what point in time and on what machine and the compiler is kind of the
 very, the very base primitive that enables that sort of consistency.
 Are there language ecosystems that do a better and worse job at this? You're like,
 you're smiling right now. Are you worried about inciting a flame war?
 Yeah, maybe. No, SQL does a particularly bad job at this.
 Which is maybe how we got started as the f in the first place. But yeah, SQL does a particularly
 poor job, right? Because as anybody that's worked at more than one company that uses SQL
 knows, you can't take a SQL statement and guarantee that there's portability from one
 from one data warehouse to another. You might get different results even for like very basic
 things like what identifiers look like and so on and so forth.
 Leaving SQL aside for one second and then we'll get right back to there.
 So, software engineers tend to adopt programming languages because they have neat features
 or because they have really mature compiler and package management and these types of,
 could you make a statement that the like package management and compiler ecosystem
 inside of Rust is like some way, in some way, differentiating or more mature?
 Absolutely, people make, those are, I think, convenience-based decisions and that is great.
 Like, I do that all the time, right? Where, hey, I want to build, you know, a database
 application. It turns out that Java has been sort of the root of so many data tools for a
 long time, that you have all the connectors, you have the right libraries, you have authentication
 methods, you have sort of other compute primitives. So, hey, Java feels like a really great place
 to start if you want to take advantage of a rich sort of ecosystem of tools and libraries
 that you can build on top of. But there are also other, there are other sort of trends taking place
 that influence what is really not just state of the art in terms of capability,
 but state of the art in terms of usability 20 years ago. I think we were at like core to duo,
 right? Like, it was a novelty to have two processing cores on a machine.
 Now, this MacBook has 12 cores or 14 cores or something like that, right?
 So, hey, now you actually need a different sort of programming paradigm and potentially
 a different programming language, different compiler technology to be able to take advantage
 of the fact that we now are now deeply in the world of many core architectures.
 And it turns out that C is much more annoying to write multi-threaded things in than Rust.
 Rust makes that stuff super simple. And a lot of it has to do with the compiler,
 the language features that are available. So, we're going to pick that because of the
 forward-looking and current sort of world state that we're in, whereas, you know, 20 years ago,
 maybe it would have picked a different language.
 Yeah, okay. It's interesting that, and seems like, would kind of be, obviously,
 true that the changes in the technology ecosystem necessitate, like, changes in
 developer tooling. So, let's finally make our way around to data.
 You started us off by saying that SQL is not standardized. I think that that's
 obviously true for anybody who is listening to this podcast. We've all had to work with
 different dialects and dealt with non-capatibility and all of this stuff.
 And that's honestly, sometimes I feel like, what's it called when the person who has been kidnapped
 develops sympathetic feelings for their kidnappers? Is it Stockholm Syndrome?
 Yeah, right. I feel like all of us in the data industry have, like,
 Stockholm Syndrome for the databases, because we, like, forget that everybody else is
 software engineers, like, live in a world of portability and have for a while.
 So, this is the world today. And it does seem a little bit analogous
 to what you were talking about before. They're, like, multi-backends and, like,
 the multi-the, like, different chip architectures. But we're kind of missing our LLVM.
 Is that a fair comparison?
 I think that's a very fair comparison.
 Why is this the way that the world is in data? Is there, like, an
 inevitability to, like, SQL dialects being different from one another, or can that change?
 It is already starting to change, right? There are, there are certain, like, commoditization
 trends that are happening, right, where people are sort of agreeing on more unified
 architectures, or consolidation trends, like the consolidation creates commodities.
 So, iceberg, I think, is like a very clear and very public one, right, where, hey, you know,
 it wasn't, you know, one of the things that was proprietary for a long time was how we deal
 with storage. Turns out, hey, if we create a unified standard for how we deal with
 storage, metadata, versioning, et cetera, a lot of companies could benefit.
 And many databases could plug into that storage mechanism.
 Now, for SQL, we haven't seen the same technology be developed just yet.
 There are really interesting tool chains out there that are moving in this direction.
 Substrate is one, right, the goal there for substrate was to create a unified,
 intermediate representation of what a logical plan looks like. There is data fusion,
 which is looking to sort of standardize what the compute backend looks like, and make,
 and trying to make functions more pluggable. So, the technology trends are starting to appear,
 but it does seem like we're, you know, at least in SQL and still, you know, 10, 15-ish years
 behind where the software ecosystem is at the moment.
 So, if we're 10, 15 years behind, okay, we're, like, trying to get ourselves out of
 the Stockholm Syndrome situation, where we kind of accept that this is the way that the world
 is. And we're not even, like, trying, data ecosystem isn't, like, clamoring for standardization at
 this level, for, like, a common representation where they can kind of be compiled down to
 all of the different targets. Can you convince me that this is possible?
 The promise of SDF, if I can speak for you, and please tell me if I get this wrong,
 is that you should be able to write a piece of SQL, and transparently to you,
 that piece of SQL should be able to run on any of the underlying dialects or engines
 that SDF supports. And today, that's, you know, a handful, and in the future, it will be many
 more. And that doesn't require that capability of running that same piece of SQL in multiple
 different platforms does not require intervention by a user. And it's not probabilistic. It,
 like, it doesn't mostly work. It, like, always works. Is that a fair way to summarize with the
 kind of core technical benefit that you think? Yes. I think you summarize the user benefit,
 the taking this back to compilers, the goal, maybe very similar to LLVM, is to create
 a unified, intermediate representation that is the same across all dialects.
 And then, given that unified representation, then you can decide what you want to do with
 that representation. Maybe you want to, um, yeah, translate from one dialect to another.
 Maybe you want to analyze that logical plan for, um, data governance reasons.
 But the target for the technology is this unified, intermediate representation.
 And then you can do with it what you want. Exactly.
 If this has worked in the land of maybe, honestly, the most directly analogous thing
 is not LLVM. Maybe it's like you were saying before. It's like TypeScript and JavaScript.
 This is an era of computing that I actually was like very active in, but like the early days of
 building web applications, you almost like just didn't want to use JavaScript at all.
 You just did everything on the server side because part of my language,
 JavaScript compatibility across multiple browsers was like, God damn nightmare.
 That's true. And, and nobody even thought that, like, of course, that's true. Like, we,
 it's not even clear that we should be trying to fix that problem. Like, let's just shovel
 the logic into the server and just like do minimal JavaScript when required.
 But we have gotten to a world where you can pretty reliably write front-end code.
 I don't know about pretty reliably, like maybe completely reliably.
 Yeah. Right. Front-end code. And it just like, you didn't care what the target browser is at all,
 right? Yeah. No, this is, this is totally true. And I think, you know, to your point about,
 oh, we were not going to wait for JavaScript to get better. We're just going to render
 everything on the server. If you think about the time horizons there, right,
 you're probably thinking it in the terms of like, hey, let's get a feature out in the next three
 months or then in the next, you know, six months or a year, compiler development does
 have a longer horizon for, for improvement. But the, because it, there are such ecosystem
 knock-on effects, that the even relatively small changes there result in huge usability
 improvements long-term. So, so, you know, what can I do to convince you that we can get there
 in SQL? I, you know, the, maybe best, best thing I could say is look at historically
 those improvements, right, for how much JavaScript development has improved across browsers over,
 over the last years, or how easy it is, you know, for, for us at SDF at this point to write
 some rust code and have it be executable with exactly the same behavior on so many different
 architectures. There's, there's proof that these increased levels of abstraction will keep
 happening as long as there are drivers in the ecosystem and really material user benefits.
 I think we have those in SQL and I think we're at that point in SQL where that investment
 really, really makes sense. And yeah, that's why we were super excited to start SDF.
 And that's what I'm excited to sort of continue the journey here at TBT.
 It's almost crazy to imagine that we couldn't accomplish this because in order to make that,
 in order to believe that we couldn't do it, you would have to believe that SQL and it's
 anybody who is listening to this. If you ever get a chance to meet Lucas in person at a
 conference or something like that, just like start asking him about the like weird
 inconsistencies between SQL dialects and like they're very real. And then they are numerous
 that they are not even close to as widely divergent as the Win32 API versus the Mac,
 whatever they call the underlying programming API is like it like we have developed reliable
 abstractions in the past and they work and we rely on them to run like literally the infrastructure
 of the world's compute fleet. And I think we can, we can do it again with SQL.
 I think so too. What does the world look like in data in a world where you've got an abstraction
 layer like this? How does it impact the way we build data systems, the way that practitioners
 work on a data basis? Blue skies and sunshine. No, one very material improvement that I
 think maybe even DBT can play a role in driving is more formation of libraries and other
 higher level abstractions. Remember I said there's two things. It's like compilers and
 abstractions. Abstractions you get through libraries. SQL has no very good abstraction model.
 There's no important statement for SQL. And being able to
 to create those libraries kind of want two things. One is you want the ability to run code
 across platforms, right? Because otherwise you have to create multiple different package
 managers depending on which data warehouse you're using. And B, you need a community that's
 large enough to actually start investing in those libraries. And if every SQL writer on the
 planet is sort of siloed into their, you know, pick your fighter team of data warehouse,
 that ecosystem is much smaller and much more fragmented. So I think there's a, you know,
 chance for this to have this very unifying effect and create a big driver and opportunity for
 libraries and packages to evolve in the ecosystem. I have talked about this publicly before,
 but it doesn't come up that often. The original thread that I was pulling on with DBT was
 package management. It was a way to figure out how to deploy standardized code alongside of
 standardized data ingestion pipelines to users warehouse. And in the early days of what was
 then Fishtown Analytics, we spent a lot of time building packages. And the DBT package
 management ecosystem like works better than not having one, which is, which is the world
 without it. But gosh, there are so many things that you run into when you try to build
 analytical packages. And the first irritating one is just nobody wants to spend their time
 building a package that can be used by multiple people, then and then realize like, actually,
 it's really only useful for the people that use the database that you're using,
 as it like cuts down the utility immediately. And, you know, I remember back in the day,
 using some kind of very unsophisticated methods to kind of provide some cross database
 compatibility. But it's like an uphill climb, which makes you just want to go back to your
 own corner and say like, never mind, I'm not going to generalize this.
 Yeah, that's true. And I think DBT's success in part, it is incredible to see how much
 traction adoption there is for code reuse. Given even, you know, the small semblance of a
 package manager, I were, hey, we're going to provide a little bit of imperative capabilities
 to SQL through Ginger. You can write for loops and things. And we're going to create a package
 management system so that you can import a package, and at least for the major ones,
 know that it's going to run the same whether you're on Snowflake or Redshift.
 How powerful has that already been? It's been incredible to see the adoption of that.
 And I think that is such a great thread to keep pulling on, because SQL still is very,
 very widely written language. It is up there in the top three, four, five languages in terms of
 actual use, all without having this sort of ecosystem or great amount of consolidation behind it.
 Yeah. It is very hard to predict exactly how a software ecosystem will evolve.
 But it has been very consistently true over time, that if you give engineers the right
 abstractions and the right kind of foundational tooling to create reliability
 across platforms, then novel, interesting things will happen.
 And so I almost look at the technology that your team has worked on, and it is now
 becoming a part of the DBT platform as this like fascinating event horizon.
 It's like very challenging to see beyond it. But I guarantee you that I will want to go back to
 building more DBT packages in a world where I can just like reliably ensure that they
 work across every database platform. Me too.
 Lucas, thank you so much. We could have done a full four-hour episode here. We've
 tried to cram a lot into a little bit of time. Maybe we'll have to get you back on here after
 we've seen some of the fascinating things that folks are building. But thank you for
 hanging out in for educating us. Thanks for having me.
 The Analytics Engineering podcast is sponsored by DBT Labs. I'm your host Tristan Handy.
 Email us at podcast@dbtlabs.com with comments and guest suggestions.
 Our producers are Jeff Fox and Dan Poppy. If you enjoyed the show,
 drop us a review or share with a friend. Thanks for listening.
