--- METADATA START ---
Show: N/A
Episode: Why Influx Rebuilt Its Databas… - The MAD Podcast with Matt Turck
Host: Matt Turck
GUESTS: Evan Kaplan
Guests: Evan Kaplan
Source URL: https://podcasts.apple.com/us/podcast/why-influx-rebuilt-its-database-for-the-iot-and/id1686238724?i=1000706796698
--- METADATA END ---

 IOT felt like this was gonna be gigantic and it wasn't gigantic. It was more of a buzzword.
 But I'd say now here we are 2025 and probably 60 to 70 percent of our business is now IOT.
 Welcome back to the mad podcast. Today, my guest is Evan Kaplan, the CEO of Influx Data,
 the world's most used open source time series database. This conversation is a perfect mix of
 data in front of a nerdery and real world start lessons. On the deep tech side, we unpack how
 InfluxDB obliterates high cardinality bottlenecks, streams straight to S3 and parquet, and why FDAP
 might become the next LEM stack. If Influx were to disappear tomorrow, that stack would still
 be tremendously valuable. And so we really kind of bet the company on that. But we also zoom out
 and talk about startup building, what it really takes to trash seven years of code and start
 of our own rust, the two home runs rule for making money in open source. You have to build a project
 that developers love. They deploy and they use and they love. And then you have the second
 home run, which you have to figure out a model to monetize it. And the strange but exciting day
 AWS moved from competitor to partner. Amazon could have forced us. They chose not to.
 So we have one last stomping in competitor. This episode was recorded live during a recent
 data-driven NYC, the monthly meetup we host in partnership with our friends at four square.
 So if you're curious about both merely second level data pipelines and had to build a great
 business while giving you code away to millions of developers for free, stick around and enjoy
 this great conversation with Evan Kaplan. Thank you for being here. This is the third time that
 we have Influx data at the event and session, extremely of your CTO and original founder Paul
 here in the audience. And I was looking at this the first time we had Influx at the event was
 actually in 2015, which is kind of crazy. And then we have all back in 2019, I guess around
 the time of Influx. So as it turns out, it takes a long time to build this great company.
 It's an overnight success. Yes, exactly. And part of the reason why it's super interesting
 to have you guys tonight is that the big news is Influx 3. So we're going to talk about all
 of that in detail. But first thing is first, what is Influx and maybe what is time series
 but getting an effort as in prior conversation to make this broadly interesting to folks that
 may not follow the very, you know, every single detail of this space.
 So first of all, I should make Paul stand up and take a bow. So if you have any questions,
 Paul is the original author of Influx TB. He's a native New Yorker. And I love telling this
 story because he can't stop me from telling it in my own way. And I met Paul in 2015. I was
 working at a venture firm, helping out with other CEOs. Paul and I connected on something
 totally unrelated to technology is we were both crossfitters. And so those of you know the joke
 is if you've ever met a crossfitters, they tell you that in the first 30 seconds.
 So we bonded around that. And over time, I met him just after he spoke here.
 And over time, he asked me if we would work together. And I said yes. And so we've been
 married now for almost 10 years. And we could do a whole speech on what it means to have a
 technology partner and a CEO coming together on that. But anyway, Influx started in 2013.
 And Paul, as many companies, they had originally started to build basically
 a data dog sign a server monitoring kind of SaaS service and then had to build a database
 to service that then realized in a pivot that the database actually was more important than
 actually the SaaS service that they could build and built Influx, which was it was built in Go.
 And it was built specifically for the time series use case. Paul had done a lot of work
 on Wall Street and had done multiple imitations of time series databases and felt like he could
 build one with no dependencies. He was deeply committed to the open source community,
 which he remains today. It's so funny actually setting this with him in the room. Usually I
 say without him in the room. But he's deeply committed to the open source community.
 He ran the machine learning meet up in New York, which is probably how you met him
 that originally. And so he built this purpose and it was immediately popular.
 When I met Paul, there were about 3,000 users out there using the open source of Influx DB.
 By the time I joined the company, there were maybe 7,000. Today, there are 1.3 million
 people who use it daily that we can see. And so as soon as people say addresses or locals,
 but it's a rough approximation. And so lots of hobbyists, lots of home users, lots of folks.
 And the primary benefit, I think the original idea that was so brilliant was
 build a package that's really easy to use, build the tic stack, which included the collectors,
 the visualizations, those sorts of things, and make it super easy to build something
 powerful that eventually became something that enterprises would use.
 Great. Fantastic. Maybe so the one-on-one on what time series.
 So think about it is the easiest way to think about it is sensor analytics, but anything
 it's measuring time, anything you want to measure, any telemetry that you're capturing over time,
 that you want to describe time, time, what happened, what happened, what happened.
 So at a very broad case, anything that's really observable that you want to
 observe over time, it turns out that most data sets are really easily understood at the time
 or most easily understood in the kinds of time. And so if you build something optimized for
 time series, it can be really useful, particularly as it relates to the physical world.
 Yeah. And so I guess you sort of just alluded to it, but why do you need a separate database
 for that kind of data? Why can't a general purpose database do this?
 There's always just two kinds of people in the world. Those who believe there are two kinds of
 people in the world, and those who don't. So yes, in some cases there are, for many use cases,
 you can use a general purpose database. People have built stuff on Postgres, people have built
 time series on Mongo. Those are how useful. But if you're ingesting huge amounts of data,
 you want the query response time, you want really zero time to be read, you want low latency
 data, you want a truly operational platform, you get to a level where the thing that you use
 to monitor your swimming pool or your home thermostat isn't the same thing that you'd monitor,
 you know, 50,000 power walls and a locality.
 All right. So we alluded to Influx 3.0, which effectively you all just announced,
 well, congratulations. So it's from the outside, it looks like a major effort that rewriting
 a bunch of things. Why did you do that in the first place? And what is it that you did?
 We started writing, depending on how you look at it, we started writing Influx 3.0. I don't
 remember when the first repository opened, let's call it three, three and a half years ago.
 So it's been a really big project. And there were certain assumptions after being in the
 market for, you know, at that point for seven years. And, you know, probably at that point
 having 12, 1300 customers, we just learned a lot about what customers were doing, what issues
 they were having. And so we set out to solve, let's call four or five problems.
 So the first problem we set out to solve is, is the issue of cardinality.
 So when you get a database that's describing a rich set of data around a time series thing,
 you can run into cardinality problems that can choke off, can choke off the performance
 of the data. Do you want to define what cardinality or high cardinality is for us?
 So think about a measurement and think about all the metadata around the measurement
 and think about ephemeral measurements like networks, you know, source and destination.
 You get these, you know, millions and billions of combinations. They're really unique to time
 series. And so when you start getting those, they can really choke off a database and kill
 performance. So what we found is that the upper bounds of our series one and series two databases,
 you know, performance would slow down. And customers would have to cut out some of
 the measurements and they would have to pull back on the richness of their data,
 which is not what you really want. And so we had to solve the cardinality problem.
 And so that required a different look at the architecture. Two is we had to solve the storage
 problem. So what was happening is our compute and our and our storage were linked. And so
 customers wanted to keep their data around a long time. It could be really expensive.
 And so if you were keeping, we have some customers sort of utilities, things like that,
 they had to keep data for 10 years. And so all of a sudden, computing storage becomes a really
 expensive burden. And so we wanted to have an object storage based system, which was non-trivial,
 to build a real time object-based storage is non-trivial. And so we embark on that.
 The third thing was, and Paul came here and talked about 2019, we took a hard attempt
 at building a functional language for time series that was open source.
 So completely open source MIT license is called Flux. And it was a really powerful
 language. It did a lot of different things. It was functional. It was modeled somewhat after
 the Prometheus, the Prometheus model, but much deeper for the kind of tasks
 and things we were doing. And frankly, there was a learning curve to it, but it wasn't big.
 But it just didn't see the adoption that we really wanted to. And so a language without
 much adoption doesn't serve any commercial purposes in long-term, doesn't even serve
 developed purposes. And so there weren't a lot of contributors to Flux other than us.
 And so it was pretty clear. I think if our assumption was, and I'm guilty of this,
 too, if my assumption was back in '18 or '19, that SQL couldn't be the language of the future.
 Like, just couldn't be. Like, how could a language, I think Paul even wrote a blog post,
 how could a language written 40 years ago be the language of the future?
 All right, listening to Mike's talk, well, we still use Excel from 1985.
 So there was a little bit of humble pie for us to eat because it was pretty clear that the
 language, and this is right around the time of the, you really started to see the clarity of
 Snowflake. And you started to see the clarity of the emergence and Databricks.
 Ali Gozi is an advisor. The company has been a friend for a long time. And you can start to
 see the clarity that maybe we were wrong on SQL. Maybe we should support native SQL because
 that is the lingua-fanka for a lot of this stuff. And so we had to solve that SQL problem.
 So we had cardinality, we had objects towards a SQL. But this next point may be the biggest
 point. We had the assumption that the world was fundamentally changing around
 what really is a database. What is a database? And I think I'm old enough that I grew up in an
 industry where really there were two main databases. There were Oracle and IBM DB2.
 And then there were some formics inside base and these side cases. But if you ran
 any sort of enterprise, you had Oracle or IBM DB2. I think now our assumption is that we
 live in a world where there are two main platforms and some variants. And those two main platforms
 are Databricks and Snowflake. Those are increasingly look-like databases to us.
 They're called lake houses. And so they combine data warehouses and the old notion
 of data lakes. But they look like databases. And I think, you know, from my historical
 perspective on the industry, I think lots of capability that sits outside those things
 will fall inside those things. Whether it's data governments, whether it's different ETL,
 whether it's different conversions, these things are giant sucking sounds. And then there are
 the fabrics of the world, the redshifts, the thinners and the big queries, which also have
 those same dynamics. And I think that's where increasingly we're going to start.
 And so we had to ask ourselves the fundamental question. It's like, okay, what do we do?
 What does a specialized database do in a world where lake houses are dominant,
 where they become the sinks for all data and a lot of functionality. And we got very clear
 about what we needed to be when we grew up, which we're still growing up.
 And that is we need to be an operational time series data. We need to really be oriented
 operational, which to us, man, we need to be greater three things.
 What does that mean? Operational versus transactional.
 For most of our customers, they use us for two broad use cases, real time monitoring.
 So you're looking at systems and behaving and alerting on actions that are happening
 in real time. And so you want your queries to be ideal queries, your last queries,
 to be sub 100 milliseconds, sub 50 milliseconds, and in some cases more.
 So not fundamentally an analytical tool. Obviously you do analytics coming out of the database,
 but fundamentally you have to be operational in real time.
 That had to be because we felt that the lake house architectures would never do that well,
 or weren't structured to do that well for very natures.
 And so we need to be, it sounds like, we need to be really great at three simple things.
 And this is what we say to all of our employees. We need to be amazing at ingest,
 which we need to be able to handle a huge volume of sensor data coming in at a fast time.
 And that stuff has to be available for query very, very fast.
 Two is we had to be great. And by the way, we're not great at all of this,
 but we have to be great at all of it. We have to be great at organizing the data
 in a proper location, in object storage, as an index, in cache,
 potentially on disk, whatever happens to be so that data is available.
 And that's no small task. If you want that data to be queried fast,
 you have to be super good at organizing it.
 And then the last thing, we have to be great at querying the data.
 And so if we're great at those three things, we feel like we have a very defensible
 and very relevant platform. If we're not great at them, use Mongo,
 use Postgres, use something else. And I would say the same for all the specialty databases,
 whether it's elastic, whether it's Neo4j. I'm not sure how I feel about the vector databases,
 but whatever these open source category leaders are, they have to find a place where they
 have to live in this lake house. So to answer your final question is,
 so the fourth back, we says, how do we live in a lake house world?
 And so this is, I think we started building this pre Delta share being obvious and iceberg
 being obvious, but we built it around Parquet. And of course, we knew that's a
 file format that the lake houses would use. And so our notion is we had to live in this world
 and our data, whether down sampled or live, had to end up in those lake houses.
 That was, so those are the four things that drove it. And I think if Paul were up here,
 we'd talk about the value of rust. We moved from goat of rust. And so we've been able
 to draw a really good developer because we've really pushing at the edge of rust,
 both the open source and our close source components.
 You know, it's super interesting in so many ways, even, you know, having the kind of self
 awareness and then will to just burn the boats for on a few things and say, well, the world
 has changed, and we need to change dramatically. And then releasing my kudos to you guys.
 In retrospect, it sounds like it's like, you know, it's just really smart architectural
 decision. But if you saw us, Paul and I fighting like cats and dogs, you'd go like, oh,
 these are really hard decisions.
 So the idea is to live on top of S three. Is that is that the rights?
 S three or I mean, I owe anything that would have an object towards interfaith.
 So you went from disk to basically disk less. And then sitting on top of it. Okay. All right.
 So that's that part, which by the way is, I mean, that's the reason why you did it.
 But like seems to be such a fundamental trend in the industry of a big three years and
 default storage. So that and then for the sort of data breaks, lake house, iceberg kind of world.
 So first of all, like I saw that you guys coined your own acronym.
 What was it? The F-DAP. F-DAP. Right. So there used to be the lamb stack and this F-DAP.
 And if that is what it's flights that are fusion. You got it.
 Our own parquet. That's right.
 So maybe we walk us through some of the components at a high level and what roles they play.
 So the idea is to build on largely an Apache stack. We felt very because of the lake house,
 because of the view of the lake house and the view of what a modern data architecture would
 look like. We decided, okay, how do we and I say we, I'd say Paul and the technical team decided.
 I was there to witness it. But but decided to build. So building and rust is a start,
 but then we built on object storage because we know object storage will be technically
 not open source, but anything in test three compatible gives you tremendous number of options.
 So might as well be and built on Apache Parquet. Right.
 Those are the standards that the lake houses are built on and things like Redshift and
 BigQuery and so. So that was advanced. It's then built on above that the notion of
 the table format, the open table format being at the delta share or iceberg.
 And now it seems like iceberg is certainly with with Databricks buying tabular.
 That'll be interesting. But iceberg feels like the base format, although delta share.
 It's also relevant. And then above that, the interesting product is Data Fusion.
 We're one of the PMCs for Data Fusion. Data Fusion is a query engine and query planner,
 super fast vector. It's available. It's a super popular open source product.
 It's got a lot of love for something that really doesn't have an end product.
 Like you wouldn't just, you wouldn't just take Data Fusion and say, okay, I'm going to run
 this. Like it's built into other products. It's built into Apache Comet.
 It competes with some of the other query engines. But the idea is to commoditize the query engine.
 So that anybody go out there can build services based on a really sophisticated
 vector query engine for columnar database.
 So commoditize some of the stuff that you'd have to, you know, if you wanted to use
 ClickCalc or other stuff, aren't tend to just commoditize that by an Apache project.
 And then Flight is the RPC and Flight SQL is the driver that allows you to run any
 SQL on top of it. And so that stack, all the way to its integration to the lake house at the
 bottom at the tables, all the way up is something that's driven by the open source.
 And so we feel like that is a long term sustainable.
 If influx were to disappear tomorrow, that stack would still be tremendously valuable.
 And the work that we do on that stack is we've done a lot of the work to convert that stack
 to rust. And so we really, we kind of bet the company on that.
 So whether FDAP is a name or FIDAP catches on is sort of relevant.
 Those projects are really relevant and they're going to be here a long time.
 Very cool. And just to drive it home from a functional standpoint,
 where we didn't flux DB sits in lake house kind of world. Are you moving the data
 into the lake house? Are you analyzing data that sits in the lake house? Where are you in the
 overall kind of data movement charts? I think the way different people use it different.
 One of the things that developed Conviction is as we went out and talked to our customers,
 even the most industrial oriented customers had built something on Hadoop.
 And we're now moving it to snowflake or data bricks and do it.
 And so what happens is they run their operational data, they run their dashboards,
 they run their queries, they do all that stuff in real time.
 And then our view of how the future is just starting now. It's just really starting,
 despite all the hype. Our view is is they're exporting a lot of that data into the lake houses.
 And the idea of using iceberg is you effectively have zero ETL. You never really have zero ETL.
 But you kind of do. You kind of have zero ETL because you can pull on the iceberg tables
 directly without moving it. But the intelligence, where the intelligence gets built is really
 important. We don't think the intelligence get built on our platform. I know that's a hard
 thing to say because everything's AI now, we believe that we're fundamentally mining the data
 and making it available so that the intelligence models, which are largely going to run
 out of the lake house, where the really structured time series data comes together
 with the unstructured data and potentially the business data. And you build your models
 based on that. We think the intelligence get built at that layer above us. But then the
 application of that intelligence to real time, we do. Because the application of that intelligence
 is effectively a query. It's effectively how quickly can you execute a query to change
 a behavior in a system that's live. Most of our business today is, in fact, real-time monitoring.
 Which is, you know, interesting and important. But the real opportunity is control. Real-time
 monitoring controls. You build control systems based on this data. In order to build a control
 system, you have to have that intelligence. You have to have the model and the inferences
 so you know what to do when the query acts. So in a very real way, we view ourselves as a
 census. Eyes, ears, nose of data coming in, pulling that data in. And then the action,
 the hand that takes the action in the real world. And this is appropriate because
 robotics is obviously a big place for us. Because data about the real world will come
 to the robot and you'll fit it into a model. And then you'll send it to
 for the action part that you were describing. We'll put the data, the model of model building
 inference engine, where a really smart model will be running. And we'll take action based on
 what the actions are taking. And those latencies need to be time.
 So this is the, I was going to say the future world, but it's moving also fast. That might
 be tomorrow morning. In terms of pedestrian use cases of machine learning, it sort of feels
 like if you're in an IoT world, there should be a bunch of use cases where, okay, well,
 your temperature goes up by a certain whatever, recognize that pattern,
 machine learning model, and then do something. Do you have a bunch of that already?
 Yeah. That's what most people do with our stuff. I would call those pretty simple control
 loops. A good example that is the Tesla power laws, I think, are roughly a million of them
 out there now. They all spew into influx into the database and they can trade energy and
 a four second interval based on that data that's coming off. And so in my house, I have a bunch,
 I have three Tesla power walls. And so I can sell my energy back to the grid based on that.
 It's all based on influx in the app runs. But that's the kind of stuff that people are
 increasingly doing. Because any, you know, the fundamental, our fundamental belief is that
 any human design systems want to become increasingly autonomous.
 Doesn't mean it has to be, doesn't mean it will be, but it wants to be. Anything that you can do,
 it wants to be increasingly autonomous with less human intervention. It's a long journey.
 And implied in the robot example that you just used, there is a concept that you can work in
 sort of embedded manner. And you can sit on hardware devices, maybe talk to that a bit.
 Yeah, we're really early in that. I think, you know, obviously, people have been putting us
 on Raspberry Pi's for a long period of time. The new version three, the open source can
 probably be embedded. Obviously, telegraph, which is our most popular open source project is
 embedded in a lot of different places. Data capture. It's the collector. Yeah.
 So telegraph is, is part of what we call it. And the tick stack is, I think is 350 or so
 systems that can collect from it, puts it in line protocol, allows it to go in the database.
 Super popular. Microsoft uses it. Amazon uses it. That's part of the tick stack.
 Okay. And T I C K. C and K. So C is chronograph, which we support, but we don't actively
 develop. Most people use us with guffana today, or super set increasingly, or some of these
 other tools are emergent, or they don't. Visualization. And capacitor.
 And I'm glad you bring it up. Capacitor was our, let's call it a task engine built around the
 database. But the version three of the database has an embedded Python VM with a set of triggers
 that allows you to do a variety of stuff at the database, to, you know, whether it's alerting
 or taking an action or taking a system action, things like that. It's actually a really cool
 thing. We're super excited about it. And that's available in the new open source.
 And that, that replaced capacitor. And by the way, I said, to this discussion, a lot of it is
 since you mentioned monitoring as an infrastructure monitoring, but there are a bunch of IoT use
 cases. Yeah. And I'm very curious about that, because the, you know, IoT, for people like me,
 as we see that, you know, get sometimes carried away in the hype, the internet of things,
 IoT was like this big ID in, you know, 2000, whatever, 14, 15, 16, 17. And I'm very curious
 what your view of the reality of it might be today.
 Well, if you'd asked, well, since my background wasn't database, as it was networking and
 security, one of the primary reasons I joined in flux in the first place, I just, you know,
 at the time, 5G networks were just trying to emerge and things were, were very much connected.
 And so IoT felt like this was going to be gigantic. And, and, and it wasn't gigantic.
 It was more of a, more of a buzzword. But I'd say now, here we are 2025. And probably 60 to
 70% of our business is now IoT. And I almost, we have to use the word IoT because it's well
 understood, but it really is about sensory analytics. And so when we think about our
 long-term businesses or the time series space in general, we just think to yourself, are we,
 are we going to see more or less sensors in the world? Are they going to be collecting more,
 more or less data? And is that data going to be richer? And is that data going to be important?
 And is that data going to feed the AI models? And so we think, we think a lot about how do we
 service that, those workloads coming up. And by the way, we say sensors as a physical
 things, but software sensors too. Lots of our businesses network telemetry, it's API monitoring,
 which basically behave like time series centers.
 Let's get into the fun territory of a competitive differentiation.
 To the extent that you're willing to bad mouth, you're competitive.
 I'm not, I'm not willing to bad.
 All right. Well, so we'll remain at a high level. But time series is a very important
 category in the data world. It's also a competitive category between some products from startups,
 like time scale, hyperscalers, open source. How do you think about it? How do you position
 you know, to win?
 We don't win anything unless people love our open source.
 So we don't have any evangelical sales force who comes in and finds your front end people.
 Our customers are data engineers, but people have to solve problems.
 So it's not useful for me to have a meeting with the CIO. The CIO does not care about this
 time series database. I mean, he should maybe, but he doesn't. It is very useful for us to have
 with an architect CTO developer. And so all of our stuff comes from developers liking our open source
 and us developing around it. So so that differentiates us from a lot, a lot of other folks.
 The people who we see as primary competition is, of course, the substitutes.
 Like my problem is not that big. I can use a postgres database.
 I can use Mongo time series stuff. Perfectly workable. It's fine. Understand that.
 But when we see direct time series competitors, it tends to come from the hyperscalers because
 those are easy buttons. I'm already in Amazon. I can use time stream. I could use Azure data
 insight or Azure Explorer. And I can use those things. That's our primary competition.
 Other players we see, but let's be honest, as an open source vendor, we don't know what's
 happening. We don't even talk to a customer unless they've been running our stuff for
 three months, generally, or they built something. And so we don't get to see the early part.
 So we have to win the hearts and minds early in the cycle. And the way we have to win the
 hearts and minds is, is it relatively easy to get started? Is it relatively easy to build?
 And do I see a way to scale it? The interesting dynamic that's happened for us recently,
 that people might be interested in is last year, we did a very unique deal with Amazon,
 where they have Amazon's time stream. What their customers kept asking them for for inflock.
 And so they approached us. They could have forked the database. We have a very strict
 view that we should open source should be open source. It should be MIT or Apache,
 and people should be able to use it freely. And companies should be able to build on our
 stuff and even compete with us. Because if we can't, if we can't win with our own code,
 then maybe we don't, we don't deserve it. But Amazon could have forked us.
 They chose not to. They built a relationship with us.
 And they're hosting InfluxDB, open source 2.0, and they will be hosting 3.0.
 And we build add-ons above that to monetize that. And we have a relationship with them.
 We do second level support. And the nice thing about that is,
 now they don't stand everything behind time stream. They're very comfortable with people.
 So we have one less dominant competitor. And two is, it's a new model for open source.
 Most people who take open source actually spin up a cloud instance anyway to run it.
 I mean, a lot of people run it. But a lot of people run it.
 And so I think for a lot of us open source companies, having these relationships really
 work, because now you just go to Amazon, you run it up. And for the price of a server,
 you're running open source InfluxDB. It's a good model. So we'll see how that develops over time.
 I think it's a change in the industry.
 All right. And we started alluding to this. But let's just learn building this open source
 company in terms of like the community, then go to market.
 I think one of the, actually to quote something Ollie said a few years ago,
 I thought was really on is, you know, it sounds great. You build an open source project,
 everybody loves it. And you monetize it. And you know, and you ride off into the sunset
 being super successful. It's actually really freaking hard. So with open source, you have
 to hit two home runs. You have to build a project that developers love. And they deploy,
 and they use, and they love. And then you have the second home run, which you have to figure
 out a model to monetize it. And you've watched these open source companies with all these
 different models. So in the beginning, it was you buy support. Well, after two or three years,
 I know how to support it as well as you do. I don't need it. Or you change your license,
 where you say, Oh, okay, no, we're going to prevent the hyperscalers from ever using this,
 or people using it for commercial purposes. And so people have played with all sorts of
 models to make it work. And I would say we didn't get it right the first time.
 I argue that our first versions of one and two in open source were so good that you have 1.3
 million users and only 2,600 paying customers. That ratio is, you know, you'd like it to be
 a little bit better if we're going to be a really good going concern. And so you have
 to figure out like what makes sense to empower developers to build cool things,
 but to hold something back so that you can actually grow a business that you can keep
 funding all of this open source activity. And so it's tricky. It's two home runs. I thought
 that was a great quote, not mine. I guess what is next? You mentioned that the earlier part
 of this conversation that you wanted to remain focused on beginning operational time series,
 database, I guess the broader question is, so should specialized people remain specialized?
 This is natural tendency to try and want to do more. How do you navigate that tension?
 It navigates itself a little bit. So if you have a gigantic cash engine
 that you're generating a lot of business, then you bite off bigger and bigger chart.
 So we have pretty good cash engine, but it's not quite the point where I'm willing to bite
 off higher up the stack or do different stuff. But also the competitive dynamics in the industry.
 I think a lot of that stuff falls into the lake house and you have to figure out where you can
 be elite and whether that space will be big. And so we have two convictions, really simple.
 We believe we can be elite based on the strength of our own open source efforts and based on
 the strength of the products that we built upon, the patches. So we believe we can be elite.
 And we believe this space can be super, super large. We think we're not having less sensors.
 We think the physical world is getting instrumented at higher and higher.
 We think the requirements for AI and telemetry are going to be super high for the roof.
 And so we're just trying to stay the course and build something that we can create long-term
 sustainable competitive advantage and still keep to our open source, you know, grounding.
 Thank you so much. We appreciate it. Thank you.
 Thanks.
 Hi, it's Matt Turkigan. Thanks for listening to this episode of The Mad
 Podcast. If you enjoyed it, we'd be very grateful if you would consider subscribing if you haven't
 already or leaving a positive review or comment on whichever platform you're watching this or
 listening to this episode from. This really helps us build a podcast and get great guests.
 Thanks and see you at the next episode.
