--- METADATA START ---
Show: Dwarkesh Podcast
Episode: Xi Jinping’s paranoid approach…
Host: Dwarkesh Patel
GUESTS: Victor Shih 
Guests: Victor Shih
Source URL: https://podcasts.apple.com/us/podcast/xi-jinpings-paranoid-approach-to-agi-debt-crisis-politburo/id1516093381?i=1000710442426
--- METADATA END ---

1
Today I'm talking with Riktor Xi, who is the director of the 21st Century China Center at UC San Diego.
2
China is obviously the most important economic and geopolitical issue over time, and doubly so if you believe what I believe about AI.
3
I was especially keen to talk to you because you have deep expertise not only in Chinese elite politics, but also its economic system, its fiscal banking policies.
4
We'll get into all of that before we get into the AI topics.
5
Is China actually a more decentralized system than America?
6
If you look at government spending by provincial governments versus the national government in China, it's like 85% local versus provincial, 15% national.
7
In the U.S., it's actually, if you look at state and local, it's 50%.
8
Federal government, it's 50%.
9
When you think of an authoritarian system, you often think of it as like very top-down.
10
The center controls everything.
11
But if you look at these numbers, it just seems like it's quite decentralized.
12
Or is that the wrong way to look at the numbers?
13
I think for a while, China was quite decentralized.
14
So this is kind of from the mid-1970s all the way until the mid-1990s.
15
China was very decentralized where local governments generated a lot of revenue, but they also spent a lot of money.
16
And it incentivized them to do, you know, kind of basically good things, such as trying to attract as much FDI as possible, trying to attract as much local investment as possible, give tax breaks, and so on and so forth.
17
So I think China had a very good period of mainly sort of private sector-driven growth because of this fiscal decentralization.
18
And that's the understanding of, I think, most economists.
19
But then there was a tax centralization in 1994, basically, where the central government basically said, okay, this is ridiculous.
20
We don't want to end up like the Soviet Union and fall into different pieces.
21
We need to control fiscal income.
22
So then they grabbed the most lucrative source of taxation at that time.
23
And so, the collection of value-added taxes, and then also all in subsequent decades, pretty much all other tax categories are now collected by the central government.
24
Then they reimburse part of the money to the provinces, and then supposedly they say, Okay, now you can spend the money as you wish, but in reality, that's not the case.
25
So, in reality, it's kind of like, well, if you do this thing, then I'll give you a little bit of money, you know, but you have to do the thing that I want you to do to get this money, to get this grant, basically.
26
So, then the fiscal autonomy, I would say, has been falling since 1994.
27
I mean, there are different periods.
28
Sometimes, you know, there's a little bit more autonomy.
29
So, you know, sort of from 2000 to until recently, until 2020, the localities gained more autonomy vis-a-vis land sales.
30
So, that's when the real estate market was going very well.
31
Even though they couldn't control the tax revenue, they could control the land revenue.
32
But then the central government basically killed the land market in 2022.
33
And now, I think localities in China are highly dependent on the central government.
34
Let's start at the very top.
35
If you look at the members, first I want to understand the personnel.
36
If you look at the members of the Politburo and you look at their past, a lot of them will be provincial leaders and then some local thing before that.
37
But in many cases, they'll have stints, as you said, as they were the head of this chemical engineering SOE, or they studied.
38
Xi Jinping himself has a PhD in chemical engineering, right?
39
Something.
40
If you just look through the list, a lot of them are like PhD economists, PhD industrial engineer, et cetera, et cetera.
41
I mean, some of them, if you look, it's like, oh, they have a PhD in Marxist theories.
42
Yeah, Marxist thoughts.
43
Which that seems fake.
44
But are they actual technocrats?
45
If you look at their degrees, they seem quite impressive.
46
Or is this just like fake made-up credentialism?
47
If there's like a PhD economist in the Politburo, should I be like impressed and be like, oh, they probably really understand economics, or should I just think about it?
48
Some of them.
49
So the former premier of China, Li Ke Chang, his undergraduate degree, I think, was economics, and he studied under one of the best economists in China.
50
So I think he understood economics.
51
So I would say in the Politburo today, there is this wing of the Politburo who are military industrialists who were trained as engineers.
52
And they indeed were trained in the best programs in China.
53
So Ma Xing Rui, the party secretary of Xinjiang, for example, in the Politburo, graduated from Tsinghua University.
54
Zhang Wu Qing, also who worked in a military industry for years, I don't know if it's Tsinghua, one of the other top science programs in China.
55
So they know a lot about science, but does that mean that they know a lot about governing?
56
I mean, that's, I think, a somewhat different question.
57
But then you also have other cases like Ding Shu Xiang, right?
58
So we can talk about him because he's in charge of cybersecurity in China.
59
He has a technical background, but in metallurgical forging, graduating at, I wouldn't say it's not the MIT of China, maybe closer to the IIT of China, you know, just kind of like the second-tier science institute founded by one of the Soviet experts who wanted to teach China how to do metallurgy.
60
But does that kind of very specialized technical knowledge make you a better leader?
61
I think it depends on the person.
62
And I think what happens in the Chinese Communist Party is that as people rise up, there's certainly, you have to have political acumen.
63
If you don't have political acumen, you're not going to make it.
64
And some people, on top of their technical expertise, it turns out that they have some political acumen.
65
But it's not something that you sort of know ex-ante, except for the princelings.
66
So the princelings, the reason why they're special is not just because of their genes, they're children of high-level officials, is that they grew up honing this political acumen because their parents could teach them about it.
67
So then some people turn out to have political acumen, they're pretty smart, they don't necessarily have the best degree, you know, degrees from the best universities in China, and they end up being very successful.
68
So it's not necessarily, oh, you know, all the Peking and Tsinghua University graduates, you know, they all get to the very top.
69
There is certainly a disproportionate amount of people like that in the Pulitz Bureau, but they don't dominate because at the end of the day, it is somewhat random.
70
Yeah.
71
I still feel confused about how to model the competence of the party because, on the one hand, they are super educated in STEM and are selected at least partly on merit, et cetera.
72
On the other hand, we just see them a lot of zero COVID was just genuinely stupid, scrubbing down airport runways and so forth.
73
And it just lasted for too long.
74
And why was nobody steering the ship then?
75
So what's the way to put together this picture?
76
So there's a lot of expertise at sort of the lower level that can feed to the higher level.
77
And there's some channels for doing that.
78
I would say a lot of channels for doing that.
79
So they're not so dysfunctional on that score.
80
But what time and again leads to suboptimal policy is the party's sort of instinct to preserve itself.
81
But then in a way, worse than that, to preserve its power.
82
So it's not, it's like, oh, well, you know, we do this kind of thing, you lead to a better sort of outcome, public health outcome, and we get to survive politically.
83
But if they see, it's like, okay, even if we do survive politically, but it leads to a diminution of our power in one respect, you know, we have less control of the banks, or like the scientists become more independent or something like that, then they would say, let's not do that.
84
You know, because it's like, what's the cost?
85
You know, some people die, you know, whatever.
86
We have slower growth for a couple of years, but we get to preserve this power.
87
We will go ahead and preserve power.
88
But if you're an economist, okay, so here's a question.
89
Like, traditionally, the way I understand it, if you study economics in at least an American university, you'll learn about like supply.
90
So, if a lot of the members at the highest levels of the Communist Party have this basic understanding, then what's the reason that they make mistakes that many economists say they shouldn't do?
91
Like, why, obviously, people talk about rebalancing a lot.
92
Why don't they think that increasing consumption is a good idea?
93
Well, so there's a traditional reason, and then there's today's reason, which is on top of the traditional reason.
94
The traditional reason is that, you know, education in China, you get tracked into science as STEM, or you get into social science or humanities.
95
If you get tracked into STEM, you may never learn anything about supply and demand, which is just not required.
96
You just learn a bunch of math, you learn a lot of engineering if you want to be an engineer, and then there's some art classes for you to select.
97
You can select the art classes or, you know, maybe one econ class.
98
For a while, you know, learning economics was popular.
99
So, in the 1990s, all the engineering students would have taken an econ class, but people who were trained before that, they were not.
100
The one class that is still required for everybody is government ideology.
101
So, in fact, the requirement for government ideology has been ratcheted up in recent years.
102
So, that now, because I look at all the applications of students from China and I look at what classes they've taken, now once a year they have to take a class called Situation and Policy, which is basically just the Chinese government's perspective on all kinds of different issues.
103
But that's not economics, it's not accounting.
104
So that's a traditional reason.
105
So you can have some very high-level officials, even if they have a PhD in nuclear engineering, they may not know very much about how the market works, how society works, so on and so forth.
106
The new reason is that we have one very, very powerful figure in the Chinese Communist Party, such that even if you're a Politburo member, which used to give you some autonomy in the domain that you govern over, that is no longer the case.
107
You know, if Xi Jinping expresses a preference over a policy direction, that is a direction you have to go toward no matter what.
108
Because if he observes that you're dragging your feet or that you're pursuing a slightly different agenda, you will be purged.
109
And we've seen cases of that.
110
At some point, we'll talk about leading small groups and the way they work.
111
But the picture you get from the fact that Xi is monitoring what all these different Politburo members are doing, he's noticing whether they're dragging their feet.
112
He's leading all these small teams.
113
You'll explain this in a second how these work, but they organize different leaders who are the heads of the ministries or commissions that are relevant to a specific project working.
114
And I guess every week they meet and they hammer out who's a bottleneck, what do we need to do to get a project moving.
115
So Xi has rationed up on the amount of such meetings.
116
And he's the picture you get is somebody who is micromanaging details across all these policy areas.
117
If you read Stalin biographies, there's a big thing like Stalin actually was a person like steel production, everything.
118
Is that who Xi is?
119
Yeah, so if you look at what he does day to day, he spends a lot of time in meetings.
120
Yeah.
121
And it's astonishing.
122
I mean, there's no, this is one thing.
123
It's like there's the Chinese leadership, they're not going to play golf, you know, three days out of a week.
124
I mean, Xi Jinping and his colleagues are having meetings about policies almost every, you know, like 270 days out of the year.
125
So the study sessions with the Politburo, these meetings, et cetera, are they like, are they substantive?
126
Are they real?
127
Is he like actually learning the intricacies of like, here's the, you know, here's how zero code has impacted this province and here's why we should whatever, whatever.
128
Or are they just faux?
129
Because if you read the announcements from the party or the departments, they're just like so vapid, like typical communist speak.
130
How real are these meetings?
131
So I've talked to some people who've lectured, you know, to the Politburo.
132
I think they're somewhat real because they don't know ex-ante what questions will be asked.
133
Like I'm talking about the speakers, right?
134
So I think the, you know, Xi Jinping and other leaders, they know what the speaker would say in the main remarks, but then there's a QA portion of it, which actually is real.
135
Like it's not staged.
136
So that's pretty scary.
137
You know, if you're some professor, you know, Xi Jinping has you to come in and ask you a bunch of random questions.
138
It's very scary.
139
So I think they're substantive.
140
And then, well, but the thing is also, Xi Jinping will make remarks after such a lecture.
141
So this is where this ranking is very important, right?
142
So the head of the leading small group always has to be the senior most ranked person.
143
And of course, the good thing about having Xi Jinping as the head of a leading small group is that his authority is not going to be challenged by anyone else because everyone agrees he's the most powerful and most senior ranked person in all of China.
144
But the problem is all the other members of the leading small group are low ranked than him.
145
So then, so whereas before, well, not all, but like whereas before when decisions were made in the Polar Bureau Standing Committee, notionally the party and also even the bureaucratic ranks of all the Polar Bureau Standing Committee members are equivalent to each other.
146
So there were debates, there were debates, and then, you know, even sometimes overturning of the position of the party secretary general.
147
Sort of historically, you have seen cases like that.
148
But when most of the decision was pushed into all these different leading small groups, usually there's one other person who is similarly ranked as Xi Jinping, you know, the Premier of China or one of the other people.
149
But everyone else would be these vice premier ministers or provincial governors who are definitely ranked lower than Xi Jinping.
150
And, you know, in no scenario will they debate a particular policy with Xi Jinping.
151
So at most, maybe there's one person with sort of equal standing officially with Xi Jinping who could voice some kind of disagreement.
152
But of course, because she is so powerful informally, no one would actually dare to do that.
153
And so, basically, the whole thing, once all the decisions got pushed into leading small groups, basically became Xi Jinping.
154
And it's very hard on him because basically, before all these meetings, there's a briefing.
155
You know, someone gets out a briefing book and says, Okay, this is what we're going to talk about.
156
Here are the policy options.
157
Which one do you want?
158
He has to make up his mind.
159
I mean, sometimes I'm sure he consults with other people and so on and so forth.
160
So, then he has to be really engaged with a large number of policy areas on a day-to-day basis because the decisions that he makes become the law, basically.
161
Yeah, and it's stupendous to think about.
162
We understand that you can tell somebody how big is China, the population, et cetera, besides the economy.
163
I think visiting China gives you a tangible sense of just how big.
164
You have provinces, each of which have as many people as a normal nation state, provinces which have hundreds of millions of people, 40,000 people, 40 million people, 50, you know, so forth.
165
And then one person will say something at the end of a meeting that determines a policy for basically like everyone.
166
Yeah, for like the population of like North and South America or something.
167
Does he say things at the end of meetings, during his speeches, et cetera, which indicate that he actually has a good understanding of these different policy areas?
168
Because obviously, the official speeches are very vague, and it's always something like, we will make sure that we are robustly pursuing Chinese growth while hewing to the tenants of Mao's thought.
169
So, never anything specific or interesting.
170
But do we have an indication that behind closed doors he's well, you don't think it's anything specific or interesting, but if you have read thousands of these things, sometimes it's quite revealing, actually.
171
So, I am.
172
Yeah, it is general.
173
I'm interested in what it reveals about him personally.
174
Did he display any analytical ability, any sort of like empirical understanding of different policies, et cetera?
175
Yeah, that is difficult.
176
So, I would say, because of his upbringing as a princeling, for internal party matters, how to control the party, how to control the military, from the speeches, you know, some of these they're not secret speeches, but they're like sort of more geared toward other members of the Chinese Communist Party.
177
So, some of these speeches, like if you go to China, you can read some of these speeches, which I have.
178
He has a really good political nose.
179
Like, he knows what it takes to control the party apparatus, control the military.
180
On especially economic issues, yeah, it seems like you know, some advisor gives him some talking points, he talks through it, there is some sense of that.
181
On technology issues, I think he cares a lot about that, but only from the perspective that competition with the United States is a very important objective of the Chinese Communist Party, is for him personally a very important objective.
182
So, he wants to win.
183
But precisely, the extent to which he understands all the intricacies, it's unclear to me.
184
I don't think he necessarily.
185
But then, you know, comparing him to American leaders, especially today, I think he's probably better prepared.
186
Just because in China, the experts, they talk to the top leadership all the time.
187
Yeah, the advantage of the American system, of course, is that, at least in theory, it can survive a leader who is not up to the snuff.
188
Publicly available data is running out.
189
So major AI labs like Meta, Google DeepMind, and OpenAI all partner with Scale to push the boundaries of what's possible.
190
Through Scale's Data Foundry, major labs get access to high-quality data to fuel post-training, including advanced reasoning capabilities.
191
Scale's research team, SEAL, is creating the foundations for integrating advanced AI into society through practical AI safety frameworks and public leaderboards around safety and alignment.
192
Their latest leaderboards include Humanities Last Exam, Enigma Eval, Multi-Challenge, and Vista, which test a range of capabilities from expert-level reasoning to multimodal puzzle solving to performance on multi-turn conversations.
193
Scale also just released Scale Evaluation, which helps diagnose model limitations.
194
Leading frontier model developers rely on scale evaluation to improve the reasoning capabilities of their best models.
195
If you're an AI researcher or engineer and you want to learn more about how Scale's Data Foundry and Research Lab can help you go beyond the current frontier of capabilities, go to scale.com/slash ThwarCache.
196
Okay, let's go back to Ding Zhaozhang.
197
How do you pronounce his name?
198
Ding Xiu Xiang.
199
Okay, sorry about it.
200
So Paul Ed Bureau has, what, 25 members?
201
20, 25?
202
Yes, 25 members.
203
Standing committee has seven members.
204
This is the key group inside the Politburo.
205
And this person is one of those seven.
206
He runs the Center for Science.
207
Sorry, the Central Science and Technology Commission.
208
The reason I'm especially interested in him is because any large-scale AI effort that China would launch would be under his purview.
209
Do we understand what he wants, who he is, what his relationship with Xi is, what he would do if HI is around the corner, et cetera?
210
Yeah, these are all very good questions.
211
So I think in addition to the Science and Technology Commission that you mentioned, another very important position that he holds is that he's the head of the office of the Central Commission on Cybersecurity.
212
The head of the Central Commission on Cybersecurity is Xi Jinping himself, but the head of the administrative office, which runs the day-to-day operation of that commission, which is basically a leading group, is Ding Xi Xiang.
213
So, and he took that position back in 2022.
214
So, he's been steeped in cybersecurity for a couple of years.
215
I think by now he knows all the major players and some of the key policy issues.
216
His relationship with Xi Jinping is a very interesting one.
217
So, he only directly worked under Xi Jinping for one year.
218
When Xi was in Shanghai, he was basically the very senior-level secretary who would support whoever the party secretary of Shanghai was, and he worked under three different party secretaries of Shanghai, supported Xi Jinping for one year.
219
For some reason, Xi Jinping just trusted him absolutely after that.
220
And it's a mystery.
221
And I've looked at all the open literature.
222
I've asked people in Shanghai.
223
Nobody knows why that's the case.
224
I mean, almost certainly, I think one reason is that he was gathering a lot of information about the other leaders of Shanghai and sending all of that information to Xi Jinping to basically let him know.
225
Because at that time, as you know, the previous leader of China, Jian Zemin, had a very big stronghold in Shanghai.
226
So basically, Xi Jinping had to sort of break that apart before he could assert control over Shanghai.
227
Ding Xiu Xiang likely was one of the people who sent all this necessary information to Xi Jinping in order for him to do that.
228
But beyond that, I mean, lots of people do that for Xi Jinping, truth be told.
229
So beyond that, what else has he done for the big boss to earn his trust?
230
I think it's a big mystery.
231
But the manifested outcome is that Xi trusts him a great deal because in 2013, he was promoted to Beijing to be the second in command in his personal office, handling all the flows of data in and out of the desk of Xi Jinping.
232
So that's a very important position.
233
He became the first in command a couple years later.
234
He took control over the entire apparatus that governed Xi Jinping's day-to-day life back in 2017.
235
Now he's the vice premier in charge of cybersecurity.
236
So clearly, this guy is trusted.
237
You know, his preference for AI, AGI, so I tweeted this Davo speech, which you also looked at, I think it's very revealing, right?
238
So you look at it, you're like, wow, what's...
239
So what he said was, we need to invest in AI, but we need to do it.
240
We can't go all out and investing in it without knowing what the breaks are.
241
We have to develop the breaks also at the same time.
242
I think that's extremely revealing.
243
So basically, it's very different from the American approach because in America, it's all driven by the private sector.
244
And of course, all these, you know, except for one or two companies, everyone just invests, invest, invest, and try to reach AGI as soon as possible.
245
For the Chinese government, they're very afraid that some actor outside, but even inside the party, is going to use it as a tool to usurp the power of the party.
246
So they want to know that they have a way of stopping everything if it comes to it.
247
So for them, developing the brakes is just as important as developing AI itself.
248
What are the different organizational milestones we should be watching for to understand how they're thinking about AI when things have escalated?
249
So to add more color to this question, what I expect to happen, let's say next year, in terms of raw AI capabilities, we might have computer use agents.
250
So a thing which is not just a chatbot, but can actually do real work for you.
251
You put it loose on your computer, it'll go through your email and compile your taxes, et cetera.
252
And then, you know, dot, dot, dot, in five years, I expect it to be able to do all white-collar work or most white-collar work, which is like, you know, 40% of the economy potentially.
253
Eventually, we'll have full AGI, even robotics and so forth.
254
As this is happening, how should we be tracking how the party is thinking about what is happening, how seriously they take it, what they should do about it?
255
Should we, I think last week or a couple weeks ago, there was a Parliament study session on AI, but I don't know if there was like AGI AI or what kind of AI they were saying.
256
Should we be looking for a leading group on AGI in particular?
257
Should we be trying to just read more speeches?
258
What should we be paying attention to?
259
Thus far, it seems like it's under cybersecurity leading group.
260
So Ding Zhichang would be in charge of it.
261
I don't think so.
262
Because for the party, it's a security aspect of it that's the most important.
263
I mean, there's one aspect where it's like, yeah, it'd be great to automate all industrial production.
264
China is doing a good job doing that already.
265
I don't think they need additional infrastructure, you know, sort of governing infrastructure to allow them to do that.
266
But on sort of applying, you know, AGI or AI to governance, to even service sector, you know, generating video content for people doing, you know, even like travel agency stuff, the party is very, very paranoid that some hostile actor outside of China, certainly they believe that very strongly, or inside of China, is going to do something and the AGI is going to take off and it's going to undermine the party's authority.
267
So I think basically what we're going to see in terms of institutional development is not at the top end, but on the lower end.
268
So they will want to designate human beings in all the government agencies, in all the commercial entities that are using AI or AGI to put their foot on the brake if it comes.
269
But so far, after DeepSeek became a big deal, the immediate reaction, it seems, in China, all the different big tech companies, WeChat, Ten Ten, everybody was encouraged to adopt it, and they did adopt it as fast as possible.
270
Xi himself met with Lien Wenfang and did a whole meeting where all the industrial heads were there, and Xi said we have to accelerate, I don't know, whatever, technology in China, et cetera.
271
So it seems like so far the response has been, the greater the capabilities of AI, the more they're excited about it, the more they think this is the beginning of Chinese greatness.
272
But you think that changes at some point?
273
No, no, no.
274
I mean, they want to develop it.
275
Of course, they'll pour a lot of money.
276
They'll try to give DeepSeek as much help as possible, you know, sourcing GPUs, you know, whatever, all this kind of stuff.
277
But I am all but certain that there is one, maybe a team of people in the headquarters of DeepSeek who can pull the plug.
278
Interesting.
279
If necessary.
280
Because there is such a team of people in every major internet company in China.
281
What would cause them to pull the plug?
282
What's possible?
283
Yeah, so if AGI started generating Falun Gong-related content and it proliferates very quickly beyond the capacity of the sensor to control it, then they'll have to stop the algorithm from generating new images and new videos and so on and so forth.
284
Suppose it turns out you were saying, look, they can help HighFlyer source GPUs and et cetera.
285
What is the mechanism by which, suppose it turns out that for HighFlyer to continue making DeepSeek to continue making progress, they need all the GPUs that Huawei can produce and they need a whole bunch of other things.
286
They need energy.
287
They need data centers.
288
What would it actually look like for the government to say every single Huawei GPU has to go to Deep Sea?
289
They're going to get access to all this spare land to build data centers.
290
Who would coordinate that?
291
Would that be the leading cybersecurity group?
292
Would that be somebody else?
293
Yeah, it could be.
294
Yeah, so that's interesting.
295
So the physical investment will have to share power with some other leading group.
296
Yeah, so I guess that would be a justification for an AGI leading group of some sort because building power center that falls under NDRC, it could be under Li Chang or He Lifeng, especially He Lifeng, which is in charge of investment and financing.
297
But if Xi Jinping doesn't want Helifeng to share that power, then we'll have to give it all to Ding Shi Xiang and then give him a lot of power.
298
I mean, he can just do it by fiat or create a separate organization to make it happen.
299
At this point, as you know, data centers are being built in China at a very fast clip, and I think they're just using existing command structure.
300
There is potentially a foreign aspect of this, right?
301
So it's like you build up all this cloud computing capacity in the Gulf states.
302
Who's going to be the customer?
303
Who's willing to pay billions of dollars to use it?
304
China, right?
305
So then the foreign policy apparatus will have to coordinate that and so on and so forth.
306
That's in the road of you too.
307
Does it have any end implication to the progression of AI who actually ends up controlling the?
308
But in terms of what happens with AI in China, it doesn't have that big an implication.
309
I think it does matter.
310
Yeah, so you have some decision makers who have shown to be not very good and even politically not very good, but nonetheless, for some reason, they're trusted.
311
Maybe precisely because they're not very good.
312
They're very dependent on Xi Jinping that they get promoted.
313
The chief negotiator with the United States, Hu Lifeng, vice premier in charge of finance, he is well known for starting and perpetuating the largest real estate bubble the world has ever seen in Tianjin.
314
I don't know if you went to Tianjin, there are like just empty buildings everywhere.
315
So there's the new Manhattan, you know, literally the size of Manhattan, filled with empty office buildings.
316
He made a lot of money.
317
That ironically sounds like a great tourist site.
318
Not because it's a run at home, but because of it, it's actually cool to visit.
319
But it's like, wow, this is great.
320
Like, what are you going to do with the buildings?
321
We went to this in Amisham.
322
We went to this huge, huge Buddhist temple.
323
By huge, I just mean like there would be this structure, the shrine, and you'd go through it, and you'd realize behind it was an even bigger shrine that was hiding from view.
324
And then you'd go through that one.
325
There'd be an even bigger.
326
This happened like five times.
327
If you were to drive through this, it would take you like a million.
328
But it's new, right?
329
Not historical, right?
330
Oh, no, yeah, yeah, it's new.
331
And then I asked the head, by the way, there was nobody else there.
332
Yeah, yeah.
333
It was me, three white guys, and nobody else.
334
And I asked the head monk, how did you guys finance this?
335
And he says, we've got a lot of supporters, a lot of donations.
336
I don't think so.
337
Yeah, so then it really depends.
338
Like, who's in charge of AGI?
339
Yeah, so Ding Xia Xiang really is a mystery.
340
I think he has great political acumen.
341
He must, you know, in order to gain Xi Jinping's trust.
342
He has some technical background, but it's metallurgical forging.
343
But he's worked in Shanghai for decades.
344
So he knows how private corporations run.
345
He knows a lot about international trade, FDI.
346
So I think, you know, if you look at the sort of people in the Politburo, Politburo Steering Committee, I would say he's definitely in the top quartile of people that you would want to be in charge of AI, if not the top, you know, two or three people.
347
Right.
348
Interesting.
349
I mean, one thing that I would say about AI is that content creation is a big, it's going to be a big roadblock for China because China is so paranoid about the content that flows on the internet that they put human beings all over the place to slow things down, slow the transmission down.
350
And then now, if you have AI creating tons of content, there will still be human beings, algorithms, and human beings double, triple-checking the content because they're just so afraid of some subversive content getting out.
351
But it's still been compatible with innovating and having leading companies in even content, right?
352
Like RedNote and TikTok and so forth, not to mention WeChat.
353
So if AI ends up, and AI might be even more robust to some of these, yeah, consistently.
354
Some sensitive content because you can just teach the AI to not say certain kinds of things.
355
But even if that were the case, even if you train something that you think is pretty good, they will still want a human being checking everything.
356
As somebody who is trying to observe what the party is doing, have you found that using LLMs has been helpful?
357
And if so, which model gives you the best insight into what the CCP is thinking?
358
Yeah, no, I've been using AI quite a bit.
359
I mean, both to sort of code data.
360
It used to be like text, hand code stuff, and now a lot of it can be automated.
361
But in terms of finding out what the Chinese government is doing, I think some of the American models are okay, like Rock is okay, but the most helpful has been DeepSeek.
362
So to me, it's quite clear that DeepSeek, which of course was first developed by a hedge fund to trade in the Chinese market, part of what they really trained the model for was to detect important policy documents and meetings within the Chinese government.
363
Because when you enter, you know, the right, or even not even like especially sophisticated prompts, you know, just like, you know, what is the Chinese government doing when it comes to AI, it comes up with a bunch of very high-quality links, which is very useful for my research.
364
So then, you know, immediately you get a sense of like what are the latest policies, what are the latest statements by high-level officials.
365
It seems that DeepSeek puts some higher weighting, let's say, on this kind of content.
366
So I have, you know, I don't dare to install it on my phone, but I certainly have collaborators who have downloaded the open source model and installed it into a hard drive.
367
And I use the web interface for some of my research.
368
Do you think it's just because they have more Chinese language data, so it's just better at understanding the party communications?
369
So, I've used sort of Baidu's thing.
370
And so, I think the typical Chinese language models are more trained on social media content, which will come back with hits that are more social media.
371
It's like, oh, you know, if you ask about AI, we'll talk about how AI gets used in different things instead of this kind of policy documents and meetings and so on and so forth.
372
So, it seems just from an inductive observation that DeepSeek is trained on this kind of content.
373
So, that HighFlyer can make trades.
374
Yes, so that HighFlyer can.
375
I mean, obviously, China being China, government policies have a huge impact on how different stocks do.
376
And that's often where you would find the alpha.
377
In the old days, people used to call up their friends who worked for this and that ministry to get insider information.
378
But I think what HighFlyer has discovered would also generate alpha is to really use algorithm to look closely at these policy documents.
379
Look, coffee isn't the reason that you're going to stay at the Ritz, but it could be the reason that you leave.
380
Because when you offer a truly freebie product, your customers require excellence in all the parts, not just the core.
381
So, the Ritz works with a specialty roster to ensure that they can deliver great coffee.
382
That's what WorkOS does for your product, but for enterprise features, like single sign-on, access controls, and audit logs.
383
These features.
384
But if you don't have them at all, you simply won't get a seat at the table with your biggest, most important customers.
385
Companies like OpenAI, Anthropic, Vercel, and Perplexity all rely on Work OS to serve their enterprise customers.
386
In fact, Nvidia might be the only other vendor that all of these AI companies share.
387
And that's because not only are these features critical, they require excellence.
388
WorkOS makes it super easy to plug in these features into your product and get back to delivering the premium experience that your customers expect.
389
If you want to learn more, go to workOS.com and tell them that I sent you.
390
All right, back to Victor.
391
Okay, and then this is going to sound like a naive question, but we're talking about how the party in the abstract wants to maintain control over every aspect of Chinese life and Chinese economy.
392
But of course, the party is made up of individuals.
393
And many of these individuals, Xi himself, went through periods where the party had extraordinary control over people's lives during the Cultural Revolution and so forth.
394
And they personally and their families suffered as a result of this.
395
And they're educated people.
396
Many of them had been in industry, right?
397
These are not naive people.
398
So maybe I'm just projecting too much of my Western bias here.
399
But what is the reason that they think it's so crucial that the banks are run by the party and the AI is run by the party and nothing escapes the party state?
400
Yeah, so the Cultural Revolution generation, I think a lot of people suffered horrendously, including Xi Jinping himself.
401
But then basically, you have two types of lessons that people drew from it.
402
So the first lesson is like, oh, you know, the party is too dictatorial.
403
You know, China needs to liberalize.
404
You know, basically, they tried to leave China as soon as possible in the 1980s and succeeded.
405
But for someone, apparently, for Xi Jinping himself and others like him, the lesson was just don't be on the losing side.
406
You know, in any political struggle, make sure you're on the winning side, because if you're on the winning side, then you can do terrible things to your enemies.
407
So, that apparently is the lesson that he learned.
408
And he basically honed his skills and built his coalitions for the time that he would take over high-level positions in the party for decades.
409
As it turns out, so if you look at the data, you know, when he was in Fujian province, he spent an enormous amount of time hanging out with military officers in Fujian back in the 1980s, you know, late 1980s, early 1990s.
410
And then you're like, well, why did he bother to do that?
411
You know, most local officials, they don't do that.
412
I mean, you know, the military is there.
413
You need to be nice to them and all this stuff.
414
But like, he'd built a dormitory for them.
415
He even joined a unit of anti-aircraft regiment.
416
He tried as much as possible to do as much as possible with the military because he knew he needed the support of somebody in the military when the time comes.
417
And guess what?
418
Sort of 30 years later, when he was about to be elevated to be Secretary General of the Chinese Communist Party, many of the people that he knew back in Fujian are now generals.
419
They're in charge of important military units.
420
And once he came to power, then he really promoted some of these people.
421
But then lately, of course, he's purging some of these people, which is really interesting.
422
Yeah, he had a strategic vision about his own career trajectory, and he pursued that in a very determined fashion, I would say.
423
What is the main difference between him and Stalin in the sort of political maneuvering sense?
424
Because all this sounds very similar to.
425
Yeah, I would say early in the career, they're very similar.
426
So outwardly, they're very low-key.
427
You know, Stalin was the bureaucrat, very low-key, not flamboyant, not making loud speeches like Trotsky did.
428
But, you know, low-key, getting things done, seen as a very reliable person.
429
This was a reason why Stalin was chosen.
430
As far as I know, I don't know that much about Stalin.
431
Same thing with Xi Jinping.
432
So his father belonged to actually the liberal faction in the Chinese Communist Party.
433
His father never offended that many people within the party.
434
I mean, you know, everyone at a high level will have sort of screwed over somebody along the way, but his father was in the better category, let's say.
435
And he himself was very low-key.
436
While the other princelings were fighting for very good jobs in the capital city of Beijing or in Shanghai, Xi Jinping said, oh no, it's okay.
437
I'll go down to the villages.
438
I'll work in Hebei in the rural area.
439
Then Fujian, which was kind of a peripheral area, and then Zhejiang was slightly better, but still not Beijing or Shanghai.
440
So he got out of the way of this political infighting.
441
I think in a similar way that Stalin did.
442
Like early on, he did not confront people too much.
443
But once he came to power, he knew, they both knew what it took to control the party which they govern over.
444
Basically, you form a whole series of coalitions to get rid of your most threatening enemy at a given time.
445
So for Xi Jinping, it was like, oh, well, you know, this guy, Zhou Yung Kang, who controlled the police forces and also the Ministry of State Security at the time, doing all this irregular things, being fabulously corrupt, he's a threat to the whole party.
446
So he convinced Hu Jintao to join with him to purge Zhou Yung Kang, which was successful.
447
Stalin did the same thing to Trotsky.
448
And then after the most threatening person is gone, you form another coalition to purge the next person and so on and so forth.
449
So they both basically did that until they achieved absolute power within the party.
450
Yeah, yeah.
451
And if you read the Stalin biography, so many of the, in the early part, like how people in the Pali Bureau are later are going to end up in the Gulags, and then many of the people in the Temple later have been to the Gulag.
452
I wonder if there's a Trotsky analogous person in this story, somebody who was a flamboyant speechmaker.
453
Yeah, Bo Shilai.
454
Bo Shilai.
455
Okay.
456
Bo Shi Lai.
457
Yeah.
458
So he was one competitor with Xi Jinping.
459
But because he was so high profile that he never had a chance to be the top leader of China.
460
And then of course Xi Jinping made sure that he would fall.
461
Right.
462
And now he's in prison.
463
And now he's in prison.
464
Yeah, he's not alive.
465
His son is in Canada, actually.
466
He's on Twitter now on X.
467
I should reach out, honestly.
468
Yeah, I think that would be really interesting, actually.
469
Let's move on to another topic I know you studied deeply, which is the local government debt situation.
470
Sure.
471
What is the newest era?
472
What is your sense of the situation now?
473
Yeah, it just keeps growing in absolute size.
474
Because basically, China is trying to tell the world that they don't have a high debt level, which at the central level, that is sort of the case.
475
You know, it's still 60, 70 percent of GDP.
476
But the reason why that is the case is because there are a lot of things the Chinese government would like to do.
477
They push it down to the local level.
478
But the authorization of local debt issuance is authorized by the central government.
479
So at the end of the day, it's really the central government telling local governments, like, okay, you need to do this thing.
480
I'm not going to give you money, but I will give you the authorization to issue even more debt.
481
So the debt level keeps going higher and higher.
482
The one thing that has alleviated the cash flow pressure late last year was the central government authorized, again, the issuance of close to 10 trillion renminbi in special local debt to repay some of the higher interest-bearing debt of local governments.
483
But that's an accounting exercise.
484
It doesn't literally decrease local debt.
485
It just changes from higher yielding to lower yielding.
486
Meanwhile, the overall size of local government debt in China, I would estimate, to be 120% of GDP to 140% of GDP.
487
Whoa.
488
That's a top of 60% that is owed by the central government.
489
Yeah.
490
So total governmental debt is, yeah, it's pushing 200.
491
And the high level we understand what this debt was for, the debt in Western countries and other OECD countries is often because you owe money basically to pensioners.
492
In this case, it was just that they built bridges.
493
Yeah, they built all the high-speed rail, all the infrastructure, the beautiful infrastructure that you do see in China.
494
And then more recently, industrial policies, right?
495
So, for example, if there's a new science park for AI, let's say, right?
496
The land that they acquire, the infrastructure that's built is all built with borrowed money.
497
Then there are these startups, and the startups are partially financed by some of these central-level investment funds that you read about, industrial policies.
498
But then actually, the local government also have their own CEDAR funds, which uses borrowed money to finance some of these venture deals.
499
For startups, is the fact that they can get cheap credit from banks more relevant?
500
Is the fact that they can get loans from provincial funds more important?
501
There's also these central government funds, the big funds and so forth.
502
Which is the bigger piece here?
503
So, a lot of it depends on your social network and your connections.
504
So, if you're a startup at Tsinghua University, you have access to private sector funds, but also some of the central government cedar funds, if it falls in the right category, you know, semiconductors, AI, et cetera, et cetera.
505
But if you're at Liam Wenfeng, I don't know.
506
So, at Liam Feng, because it started out as a financial institution, so it was mainly sort of private sector money from financial investors.
507
But there are other AI, especially sort of more hardware-driven initiatives in the provinces, which are seeded by local government funds.
508
And the point about financial repression is that without financial repression, an investor in China can invest in Silicon Valley.
509
They can go to Sequoia and invest money, but because of capital control, they cannot legally move more than $20,000 a year.
510
So as a result, many of them choose to invest in Chinese high-tech or they choose to put their money in the bank.
511
So actually, a lot of people just choose to put their money in the bank, and then the state banking system is then financed to, or they have the deposits with which to lend to local government CEDAR funds for industrial policies.
512
And the crucial thing here is that the banking sector is totally controlled by the state.
513
So you're not getting a true rate of return based on what the productive value of investment is.
514
It's literally like 1%.
515
Yes, the deposit rate is 1%.
516
Yeah.
517
Which is, I mean, it's like an insanely low-income.
518
The inflation rate is very low in China, right?
519
There's a couple of mixed-up questions I want to ask here.
520
Basically, so you said, well, if there were no capital controls, these people might want to take their money and go invest in Silicon Valley.
521
Very basic development economics would show you that if a country is less developed, they'll have higher rates of return.
522
The Silicon Valley would want to invest in China.
523
Why would getting rid of capital controls make capital go the other way?
524
And this goes into other questions of why is it the case that the Chinese stock market has performed so badly, even though the economy has grown a lot?
525
And then why is it the case that they have a current account surplus and they're basically accumulating T-bills?
526
When the pattern you should see, obviously, is that they can earn much higher rates of return building productive things in China than accumulating 4% of yield T-bills.
527
Yeah.
528
Well, so at the deepest level, I would say there is a deep fundamental difference between capitalism and socialism.
529
And it sounds very philosophical, but I think this might help sort of your Gen Z listeners.
530
It's like, okay, whatever capacity we're thinking about, whether it's grain production or metal production or these days robotics, we just want more of it.
531
So then the state can use the state banking system, which they control, to allocate a huge amount of capital to maximize the output of all these different things that they care about.
532
But when you maximize the output, you don't necessarily make money doing that.
533
Whereas capitalism wants to maximize profit, which is, you know, as you know, the difference between the cost of production and the amount that you can earn from selling the output.
534
For socialism, they don't care about that.
535
But the companies aren't socialist, right?
536
The companies are profitable.
537
No, but because the financial system is socialist, they're forced into socialist-like behavior.
538
You know, you can't go into a bank and say, look, I make robotics.
539
This robot that I'm going to make is going to be highly profitable down the road, but I can only make like 10 of them.
540
And then the bank would be like, well, this is BS.
541
I know a lot of startups don't make any money.
542
But at some point, notionally, you have to start making money.
543
Whereas the socialist banking system basically says, you know, even if you never make any money or hardly any money, that's okay.
544
As long as the Chinese government tells us that this is a strategic sector, as long as you can prove to us you can actually produce the thing that we want you to produce, if you never ever make money doing that, that's perfectly fine.
545
What is the sort of outer loop feedback?
546
The thing which keeps the system disciplined?
547
Here, there's private investors who care about actually earning a rate of return, and so they're only going to invest in companies which they think have a viable shot of becoming bigger, huge companies that can actually be at the frontier in technology.
548
If these banks are not actually competing against real investors, and it's not their money, exactly.
549
So they don't care.
550
But it seems like this is compatible with many of the world's leading companies being developed in the system.
551
So, how is it working?
552
Well, so this is where the bureaucracy steps in, right?
553
So, it's like, well, how would a bank tell what's a good company and what's not a good company?
554
So, then there's a complicated system where the mystery of, so let's say for robotics or for semiconductors, there's a sort of expert group in the mystery of industry and informationalization, information technology that will assess all these different projects.
555
So, the banks will literally send them and say, okay, this company wants to borrow $10 million.
556
Do they have real technology?
557
Is this a good prospect?
558
And some bureaucrat, supposedly with no financial stake in the company, they're completely neutral, supposedly, I say supposedly, because in reality, we've seen many cases of corruption, in conjunction with an expert panel who, again, with no relationship with the company or with the bank, will sign off on these projects or reject these projects, get sent back to the bank, and the banks say, okay, these bureaucrats say that your project is good.
559
You're good to go.
560
Here's $100 million.
561
But it seems to work.
562
Yeah, yeah.
563
No, but this just belie the whole idea.
564
It's like central planning isn't supposed to work, right?
565
No, no, no.
566
So there's selection bias.
567
We see and pay attention to the cases that work.
568
And there have been some fabulous success cases, which, by the way, does not include Xiaomi or BYD because those were mainly privately funded at the beginning.
569
And CATL and DJI.
570
Yeah, exactly.
571
So the success cases actually are not that.
572
I mean, but there are, you know, I'm sure there, I don't know the cases, but like there are, well, Huawei.
573
So I would say like Huawei, it is, there was a lot of state funding along the way and so on and so forth.
574
So you have success cases, but there are so many failed cases and billions and billions of dollars just thrown down a hole basically for the failed cases.
575
In fact, for semiconductor, things got so bad that they had to arrest a whole bunch, dozens of people in the Ministry of Information and Industry and Information Technology who were in charge of approving these semiconductor deals.
576
They all went to jail because they were in a deal where, you know, some companies submit a bogus project, they approved it, they got a part of the money, and so on and so forth.
577
So it doesn't work very well.
578
I mean, of course, you have fraudulent cases in the U.S.
579
also, all that kind of stuff.
580
But the scale in China, the waste in China is a much larger scale phenomenon.
581
Yeah.
582
And it's all financed, as you say, with this financial repression, which is basically a tax on savers.
583
And so even though there's no meaningful income tax and just value-added tax and corporate income tax, if you factor in the currency devaluation, which is a tax on consumers, and then this financial repression, which is a tax on savers, it actually might be a meaningful decrease in the quality of life of an average person.
584
Yeah.
585
No, I mean, you definitely see it.
586
Like, you know, for an economy that's been growing 5 plus percent for decades, you by the basic necessities, shelters, medical care, et cetera, et cetera.
587
You don't see that.
588
You know, a lot of migrant workers are barely getting by.
589
The homelessness is increasingly a problem in China, especially with the labor market being so fickled these days.
590
Elderly care is pretty abysmal, you know, very basic level, let's say, for a lot of people.
591
Not for everyone.
592
So some people get very good elderly care if they worked for the government or SOE previously.
593
So you see a lot of problems that the Chinese government has overlooked.
594
So this is why I'm saying they have a goal of making all Chinese people very happy and fulfilled.
595
One part of it is being fulfilled, the technology part, but the other part of truly making people living a good life, they're not making as much progress as they should, I would say.
596
And then just to close the loop on this, so I think sometimes we get impressed when we see, oh, they've got the Made in China 2025, and the NDRC and the MIIT and so forth have these very specific, you know, LiDAR needs to get to this point, and we need the EUV machines at this point and so forth.
597
But your claim is that that part of the system is actually dysfunctional, and in fact, the part that actually works is the 5% that is totally private.
598
No, so the private sector stuff works a lot better.
599
You have occasional successes from the state finance system.
600
So I wouldn't say that there are no success cases, but I would say that for every success case you see, there are just maybe even over a dozen failed cases, which, you know, of course, you have failed cases everywhere, you know, in VC, but the amount of money being wasted in the state financial system would be much larger.
601
Going back to the local government debt burden, there's a world where AI isn't a big deal, and there's a world where AI is a big deal.
602
If we live in the world where AI truly causes huge uplift to economic growth and so forth, is it possible that this problem doesn't meaningfully harm China's ability to compete at the frontier?
603
And here's why that might be the case.
604
It seems like this problem is especially affecting poor provinces.
605
Whereas you have the actual numbers, but are Shanghai and Guangdong in a good position with respect to their fiscal situation?
606
And could they keep funding top-end semiconductors, AI firms, data centers?
607
And so China could still keep competing at the frontier in AI, even if the poor provinces don't have the money to fund basic services and so forth.
608
And in the long run, they get advanced AIs, and that's a big uplift to economic growth.
609
And they can just grow their way out of this debt problem.
610
Yeah, so we can talk about that.
611
I'm a bit skeptical about that for the case of China.
612
But yes, indeed, as you said, some places like Shanghai and Guangdong, they're still in relatively okay fiscal positions.
613
But then there are other sort of wealthier provinces with a lot of debt also.
614
So Zhejiang province, which is where DeepSeek is located, actually, and also Alibaba and all these tech companies, they have a high debt load.
615
But because they start from a pretty wealthy place, they can still serve.
616
But actually, a trade war is going to make it worse for Zhejiang province because a lot of the manufacturing export firms are also in Zhejiang.
617
But, nonetheless, the case of China is that basically the financial system is geared toward fulfilling the priorities of the party, i.e., the priorities of Xi Jinping.
618
So, even if they can't do anything else, they will do the things that Xi Jinping wants them to do.
619
And AI apparently is one of the higher priorities for Xi Jinping because he's held multiple study sessions, he's had different Polygroup meetings, and so on.
620
And Ding Shuxiang, who's one of his most trusted lieutenants, is in charge of it, etc.
621
So, I do expect a fair amount of resources being devoted to it, regardless of the situation and local debt.
622
I mean, in fact, at the local level, things are so bad, but they just don't care, right?
623
So, there are civil servants, teachers who are not paid four or five months out of the year.
624
And then you can say, well, how can you run a government like that?
625
Wouldn't it just collapse?
626
But then you have to look at the outside options.
627
You know, for your teacher, for your very low-level bureaucrat, what option do you have?
628
I mean, do you want to go back to delivering food, you know, to people?
629
Or would you rather at least take six, seven months of civil service salary?
630
At least you have health care, at least you can get your free lunch at your workplace cafeteria every day.
631
People still choose to work for the Chinese government, even if that were the case.
632
But a lot of the previously very generous fringe benefits and so on and so forth, that has all been cut down because of the local debt issue.
633
But they're still pouring a lot of resources into national defense.
634
And what would a solution at this point look like?
635
Because if you've already spent all this money, first of all, actually, why is it the case that these investments aren't productive?
636
Because it's not like it's entitlement spending where you're doing it for, I don't know, old people, but then at the end of the day, you're not getting any return for it.
637
Theoretically, these are like, you're building real bridges, you're building airports.
638
So why aren't they productive?
639
And then what does a solution at this point look like?
640
Well, so it was very productive.
641
You know, I mean, I think you noted in this Art Kroeber book review that you did in the 1980s and 1990s because China lacked a lot of infrastructure.
642
But once you build the first high-speed rail between Beijing and Shanghai, you build the second one, you build the third one, there's very rapidly diminishing return.
643
Also, as you know, the population is basically shrinking in China, and especially in a lot of cities in northeastern China and also in southwestern China.
644
So you really don't need high-speed rails connecting those cities to other places in China because nobody lives there anymore.
645
You can ask about it.
646
So if the reason that the provincial leaders kept doing this construction was because they want to get promoted and they want to get GDP numbers on the book, and government spending now is adds to GDP, even if the ultimate thing you're building is not that productive.
647
But then the central government has had a problem with this for a while.
648
And then they think this is fake.
649
They don't want to keep this fake growth going and they see the local debt numbers.
650
Were they still promoted nonetheless?
651
Like, why were people doing this?
652
Who was the person who created?
653
A lot of these people got arrested.
654
Um, so what was incentivizing them to keep why?
655
So, when you invest in a large infrastructure project, a lot of money changes hand.
656
And that is so, well, so this is a big debate in my field, also.
657
You know, some people are like, well, look, you know, like the more you invest, the more likely you're to get promoted.
658
My argument is that it's not the actual investment, it's the rent-seeking that comes along with the investment, right?
659
So, you know, you have to get a contractor for cement, you have to get a contractor for this and that, you know, you get a big envelope under the table, you know, as a kickback.
660
Then that allows you to pay your superiors.
661
You know, because you, let's say, you did a billion-dollar investment to build light rail or something like that in a city, you got a hundred million dollar payout from all the contractors, you can give your superior $50 million to thank that person and to up your chance of getting a promotion.
662
And so, I would say that's more the realistic mechanism for linking investment and promotion than, like, oh, good job.
663
You, you know, you generated investment and GP in this city.
664
We're going to reward you with a promotion.
665
In fact, there's really good work by James Kung showing this.
666
You know, it's like basically, also like when you do a real estate deal, you can sell land cheaply to politically connected princelings, and then they will lobby on your behalf for your promotion.
667
And statistically, there is an effect.
668
So, if you sell land cheaply to princelings, your chance of promotion goes up.
669
I find it fascinating the fact that whether a corrupt political equilibrium leads to more construction or less construction, because the political equilibrium in America today is that, I don't know, California isn't the least corrupt state in the country.
670
But the political equilibrium is that the fact that there's so many different factions who get their hand into the pocket means that it's not that everybody's like, we need California Real to happen yesterday because I need my share of it.
671
It's that, oh, I'm going to get a little consulting fee to slow this down by five years.
672
And another person.
673
So it's quite interesting.
674
And if you read the charibiography of Robert Moses, and you look at the strategies he employed, it actually is very similar to what you're mentioning here, where it's in every single faction's interest that a bridge that Robert Moses is working on gets done through some of the mechanisms you mentioned.
675
For example, he would give the banks these discounted bonds for this construction.
676
So the bank lobbies were encouraged to keep the construction going.
677
And he would give, obviously, the unions wanted employment, so they want the construction to happen.
678
Every single person at every stage was incentivized.
679
So I find it interesting that China has maintained keeping political equilibrium, which encourages too much building, whereas our political equilibrium is that it's discouraged.
680
Yeah, it is.
681
So basically, all the regulations in the U.S., you know, environmental, this and that, builds its own sort of stakeholders and lobbying group.
682
And then it's in the interest of these lobbying groups to prolong the process so that they can absorb a higher share of the rent.
683
Whereas in China, because they have this command structure headed by the Chinese Communist Party, the secretary of the city or province can cut through all the red tape because he's the boss of all the regulators at the local, most of the regulators, let's say.
684
So if he wants to do something, he can cut through all of it as long as he can benefit somehow himself.
685
So I think that would be, I would say, that's the difference.
686
Interesting.
687
Yeah.
688
Okay, and then what would a solution to this problem look like?
689
Because if it's 100% of your GDP, okay, so I would say, and of course the Chinese government will never ever in a million years do it in its current form, which is to reduce a lot of the other unnecessary spending, like national defense, like a lot of the industrial policies, and then use the savings to bolster domestic demand with welfare policies and to gradually decrease overall amounts of local government debt.
690
That, I think, is economically sound because it's like China already has the largest navy in the world.
691
Why it doesn't need a navy that's even bigger than the largest navy in the world?
692
It doesn't need that.
693
I mean, it has more than enough for national defense.
694
It has some of the best jet fighters in the world already, some of the best missile systems.
695
Like, no one is going to invade China or come close to it.
696
So they actually don't need it.
697
I mean, the tech race, I mean, I do, I'm somewhat sympathetic to China, you know, because now that there's U.S.
698
policies preventing Chinese companies from buying all the chips and AI, so it wants its own capacity, is spending a lot of money on it.
699
So that part I'm somewhat sympathetic.
700
But other aspects of industrial policies, you know, for some of the battery stuff, for solar power, et cetera, it can certainly reduce a lot of subsidies.
701
It can increase taxes, actually on many export-oriented firms, which is one of the reasons why there's a big trade surplus in China and trade imbalance between the U.S.
702
and China.
703
get more revenue that way to finance domestic demand and to pay down local government debt over time.
704
The Chinese government, of course, will never do that because it has a very high, places a very high priority over competition with the U.S.
705
across many different fronts and to get dominance over multiple supply chains.
706
But in a world of global trade, why do you need that?
707
I mean, the same thing goes for the U.S.
708
The U.S.
709
doesn't need dominance over every single supply chain.
710
Yeah.
711
Why is it the case that economists, so when they're talking about rebalancing work towards consumption, they'll often suggest that you should do increase the amount of welfare.
712
But it seems like the more straightforward thing to do would just be to get rid of financial repression so that by default savers would have more purchasing power, get rid of currency devaluation, again, same effect.
713
So why not get rid of the regressive taxes rather than?
714
Because, yeah, if you just get rid of financial repression, it will only benefit the savers, which is 10% of households, net savers, 10%, 20% of households.
715
If you look at median households, they have very little savings, actually, besides the home in which they live.
716
Yeah, so there's this misconception.
717
It's like, oh, China has the largest savings deposit in the world.
718
And that's true.
719
But if you look at the distribution of the savings deposits, it's highly concentrated in the hands of 10%.
720
So even if you say, oh, okay, deposit interest rate suddenly goes up to 4%, it's only going to benefit the people with a large amount of savings.
721
Most people, if they don't have better welfare services, they're going to save like crazy in anticipation of getting sick.
722
So, you do need better, you know, certainly medical care insurance in China.
723
I mean, that's something, you know, frankly, I worry about the U.S.
724
You know, if you cut back on Medicaid, it's going to encourage precautionary savings, which you can say, well, but that's a good thing.
725
Americans save too little, maybe, but then your short-term consumption is going to come down.
726
Okay, so you mentioned a second ago, well, why do they need this big military?
727
Obviously, the reason is not just self-defense, but a potential invasion of Taiwan.
728
So, given your reading of elite politics, what's your sense on the probability that they would actually invade Taiwan this decade?
729
So, first of all, I think we do know something about Xi Jinping's preference mapping when it comes to this issue.
730
He's said a number of times that, you know, obviously China should be united.
731
So, I do believe that's sincere.
732
But clearly, his desire to achieve that is not so strong that he would take a very risky gamble achieving it, because if that were the case, he would have done it already.
733
He's been in power for 12 years.
734
You know, he hasn't done very much.
735
I mean, you know, certainly the amount of pressure on Taiwan has ratcheted up.
736
And also, from his other policymaking, we know that he's not a reckless policymaker.
737
Well, zero COVID is kind of reckless.
738
Well, do you think that was reckless?
739
Well, so that was actually conservative, right?
740
So, he preserved the lockdown longer than was necessary.
741
Yeah.
742
I mean, it depends on how you.
743
It's like it's conservative because in the long run, maybe they'll pose a national security threat, right?
744
But in other words, it's a change for the market.
745
If he wants it so badly that he would just do whatever it takes to get it, he would have done it already.
746
Yeah.
747
I guess you would argue that he has been trying to build enough self-sufficiency that in the aftermath, China would not be left in the lurch with food or power.
748
And that's why they're doing cleantech.
749
That's why they're doing investments in SEs and so forth.
750
So that over the next few years, if they have a lot of enough self-sufficiency, they're in a position where they actually could without it being a huge...
751
He couldn't have done the same thing in 2015.
752
Right.
753
So yeah, so then we've seen the Chinese government engage in all this behavior, stockpiling this and that, like oil, grain, and so on and so forth, enlarging its navy, building all this landing capabilities and so on and so forth.
754
So then one argument is like, well, so there's a threshold.
755
Once he feels that he reaches that threshold, then he'll go for it.
756
But then for me, it's like, I don't think that threshold is fixed.
757
It's really conditional on a lot of different things.
758
And there are some exogenous factors that will increase the threshold.
759
Other exogenous factors will lower the threshold.
760
So I would say more recently, one factor that might have increased the threshold for him acting is what happened in Ukraine.
761
So Ukraine, you have a case where Putin was very confident about taking over all of Ukraine within a short period of time.
762
Turns out he was wrong.
763
He was getting all this bad intelligence.
764
And that very likely increased the threshold.
765
Interesting.
766
But then there could be other factors that lower the threshold.
767
Trevor Burrus, Jr.: This gets to the question of how much information flow is there, how much true information is getting up to Xi Jinping.
768
In authoritarian systems, obviously there's a danger that the leader is not getting told what they don't want to know.
769
But you were mentioning a second ago that you think that the top leadership is in communication with experts all the time, is in meetings all day, where they are learning about what's happening.
770
Is that your sense?
771
But then you read about zero COVID, and it seems like by year three, it was very obviously a mistake.
772
So to the extent that it wasn't stopped at that point, was that because information wasn't getting up to the top leadership?
773
Similar story with, I think there was a very famous case in 2024 where Xi said, why don't we have billion-dollar unicorn tech companies in China?
774
And people were responding, does he not realize that the 2021 tech crackdown is the reason that's the case?
775
Did somebody not tell him?
776
So what's your sense of how much he is getting told things which might make him uncomfortable?
777
For example, that we might not succeed in Taiwan?
778
Yeah, so this, yes, it goes to a question of the role of expertise in the Chinese government.
779
I think that's a very interesting question.
780
I mean, frankly, I mean, I'm trying to use some kind of data to try to assess that.
781
But my intuition is this.
782
The top leadership always listens to experts.
783
So unlike some cases in the U.S., the experts are respected, they're listened to.
784
But there are sort of interest groups that are close to leadership.
785
They also know that.
786
So they will present different kinds of experts.
787
So, sometimes you would get these conflicting advice from different experts, and he will have to make some kind of gut call.
788
Other times, for political reasons, they will just ignore the experts.
789
So, they will never say, you know, fake news, we don't believe in science, and so on and so forth.
790
Sometimes, even though they know for sure the experts are right, because of other political reasons, they'll say, okay, you're right, but we're not going to do what you want us to do for now for a bunch of political reasons.
791
And how did that manifest in zero-COVID?
792
Yeah, so I think the timing of it, also the decision not to buy Pax Lovitt on a very large scale, that might have been some kind of political decision.
793
We show, we have a paper, actually, I should send it to you, showing that basically they kind of knew the experts told them the U.S.
794
vaccines were better, mRNA vaccines were better.
795
But the Chinese government said, okay, we believe you, but still, we want to help our domestic pharmaceutical industry, so we're going to only sell the domestic stuff in China.
796
So, that's very clear.
797
If you look at the propaganda, you know, they began to denigrate the Western vaccines and highlight the Chinese vaccines and so on and so forth.
798
But I think they do meet with experts a lot.
799
Sometimes the experts are manipulated, you know, into saying certain things.
800
Other times, the experts are sincere.
801
They listen to them, but they still choose to not implement what the experts recommend.
802
Yeah, I guess I'm just trying to get a sense of where does this net out in the competence of the political system.
803
It seems like they have a track record of making some smart calls, but then occasionally making a call that is so bad that it wipes out all the smart calls, and Zero Code being an example of that, or obviously, one-child policy before that, not to mention all the things that Mao did.
804
And so, I'm getting the sense that they will consult with economists or scientists or whatever on some things, but then I guess I still don't understand.
805
Well, then, why did they, okay, we're not going to buy the American vaccine because of this, this is the time of all times to be for making sure the pharmaceutical industry in China is in a good position.
806
Sure, but then did they not know that people were locked in their apartment starving and that this was not a long-term viable strategy and so forth?
807
Like, how is this compatible with this very technocratic picture we have?
808
Well, so they're technocrats or people who know a lot, but I guess, yeah, generally speaking, protecting the party, protecting the state apparatus, and all the important tools of the Chinese government will almost always be a higher priority to any kind of technical considerations in a given decision-making.
809
So, it's like, well, why protect all these pharmaceutical companies?
810
Because they're state-owned enterprises.
811
They need to survive the ordeal.
812
They need to have a national brand name.
813
And also, of course, pharmaceutical and new, what they call new biology, is in one of these industrial plans.
814
In order to finance some of these future research in advanced biology, these companies need cash flows.
815
What is the succession plan after Zhu Zhi is gone?
816
There are no plans.
817
Yeah, I think that would be an issue.
818
Yeah, if you were to drop that to tomorrow.
819
I mean, so the power storage is.
820
So, the biggest impact is this, right?
821
So, right now, financial repression works because, so let's say you're a billionaire, you try to get your money out of China, you know, you make up some fake paperwork.
822
You know, I'm importing a million Rolex watches from Singapore, I need to pay an invoice for a billion dollars.
823
That order will go from your bank to the state administration of foreign exchange in Shenzhen or in Shanghai, and some bureaucrat will have to okay it, right?
824
Large denomination outflows.
825
Right now, that bureaucrat is like, if I approve this, someone in Beijing is going to notice it, and I'm going to be in jail within a week.
826
Yeah, so I will not approve it.
827
But if that person was like, there's nobody in Beijing, no one's mining the store, and this guy promises me $100 million if I approve it, I'll go ahead and approve it.
828
So, if there's any sense that there's no command structure in Beijing, even for like a week or two, I think we would have a financial crisis at least.
829
That's interesting.
830
How much you just said because there would be tremendous capital outflows.
831
So, let's put it this way: the Foreign Exchange Reserve recently was like, oh my God, so much money, $3 trillion.
832
Right now, it's like less than 5% of money supply in China.
833
So, it doesn't take a panic.
834
So, even if people want to just rationally reallocate 10% of their assets outside of China, foreign exchange is gone, massive devaluation, et cetera, et cetera.
835
Then there's mass bankruptcy, blah, blah, et cetera.
836
Yeah.
837
But they can stop it.
838
If there's a command structure.
839
Yeah.
840
If people believe that they're going to go to jail the week after, even if they get $100 million in cryptocurrency in Hong Kong, whatever.
841
And suppose it doesn't happen tomorrow, but in 2028, 2030, he just goes senile, and over the course of months, it's clear that there needs to be a successor.
842
What does then the succession process look like?
843
Yeah.
844
So there's historically a way that we know doesn't work, and then there's a way that could work.
845
One way that we know historically doesn't work is to designate someone.
846
It's like, you're going to be the successor.
847
I mean, that person is going to die for sure in a horrible way.
848
And we've seen this for Stalin.
849
We've seen this for Mao.
850
The other way is to have someone that everyone trusts to represent the leader's opinion, but cannot possibly become the number one person.
851
And Mao had Chiang Ching, his wife.
852
Xi Jinping can also do that for his wife, or increasingly we see his daughter taking a higher profile.
853
And the reason why these individuals cannot be number one in the party is because of this ingrained sexism in the party against women.
854
And also they have never held official positions in the party and so on and so forth.
855
So I think having a transition figure who can basically stabilize the whole situation while the different factions fight it out peacefully, hopefully, will be a very important ingredient.
856
But sometimes even these transitional figures are.
857
The Long March veterans...
858
They were so close to each other that they worked it out among themselves nonetheless.
859
So that was a pretty peaceful transition, besides the purge of Jiangqing and her colleagues in the Gang of Four.
860
These days, the Long March generation of officials who have spent decades with each other, governing with each other, that doesn't exist anymore.
861
There's very high turnover.
862
The people who are in the Politburo, there are different elements in there.
863
Some of them, a few of them have worked closely with each other over the decades, but many of them worked in such disparate bureaucracies that there is not a lot of trust between them.
864
And that probably is by design, right?
865
So you don't want people in the Politburo to trust each other, to be friends with each other too much because they could get together and usurp your power.
866
So given that there isn't this social capital that we saw back in 1976, I think this transition is going to be more ruthless, more brutal, and potentially more disruptive.
867
What are the important factions in Chinese politics today?
868
What is the equivalent of liberal or conservative in American politics?
869
Historically, there's things like the Shanghai clique or whatever, but do those still exist?
870
And if they do, what do they stand for?
871
I mean, they're all beholden to Xi Jinping in one way or another.
872
But do they have different ideas about what should happen with China or what should happen over the world?
873
Generally speaking, you have some people who are more pro-market.
874
These people tend to be people with more governing experience along the coastal provinces like Zhejiang province, Shanghai.
875
So all the military industrialists, I would guess that they're more pro-state power.
876
So during, well, but actually, those figures I think will ultimately be somewhat stabilizing because you basically saw this in the Soviet Union.
877
For those people, they just want to preserve their vested interests.
878
So it's like, okay, whoever is in charge, as long as you subsidize the state sector some more, I'll support you.
879
So in the Soviet Union, after Stalin died, or even between the sort of Khrushchev and post-Khrushchev transition, they were stabilizing politically, even though they ended up damaging the Soviet economy by demanding so many subsidies for their own sector.
880
So the fact that you have quite a number of these guys from the military industrial sector as Politburo member potentially could be stabilizing.
881
What's your forecast on Chinese growth or the Chinese economy relative to the U.S.?
882
If AI is not a thing, let's just forecast out everything else in the year 2040.
883
Is it 2x as big as U.S.
884
economy?
885
PPP?
886
Is it 3, 4x?
887
Is it 1x?
888
Yeah, no, I think it's 1x or sort of 1.2x of U.S.
889
economy.
890
You mean PPP?
891
Yeah, well, I don't quite believe in these PPP calculations.
892
Interesting.
893
Okay.
894
Just because the quality is very different, you know, in China's, in some cases, still worse.
895
In other cases, increasingly, it's better than U.S.
896
quality.
897
So I'm not an expert, but yeah, like even controlling for inflation, so real income overall size.2, right?
898
So, no, no, no, no, not in PPE.
899
No, no, well, yeah, if it's not PPP, then if it's just real income, I think it's like 70% of the U.S.
900
economy, something like that.
901
So, this is quite a bearish forecast because usually people expect it to be quite dominant by 2040.
902
Yeah, because growth rates were slowing down anyway.
903
Yeah, right.
904
And then now you have this trade pressure and so on and so forth.
905
It's going to slow down.
906
There's no big consumption stimulus in sight because of the high debt level.
907
So, they can't possibly push growth rates up through that mechanism.
908
So, they have to double down on more investment, more supply side.
909
But then, at some point, is the world really going to switch to 100% buying BYD as opposed to Volkswagen and all these other cars?
910
I don't know.
911
I think there will be a pretty big pushback, or at least some kind of limit, right?
912
So, let's say China takes over most of Latin America, most of Africa, most of the Middle East.
913
That's still not such big markets, right?
914
You ultimately have to conquer Europe, you have to take North America.
915
That's going to be really tough.
916
Final question: Sure.
917
What advice do you have for me on how to land, if not somebody on the Politburo, like one step away from the Politburo?
918
Yeah, I think that's very tough.
919
Anyone who's been a mid-level or higher official can no longer leave the People's Republic of China.
920
There are some former vice ministers who can go to Hong Kong.
921
So, I think that's your best bet: is like reach out to one of these vice ministers type and to agree to meet with them in Hong Kong or Shenzhen, even better yet.
922
That could be okay if they're.
923
I mean, some people are willing to be a bit more open, but frankly, yeah, there is this atmosphere in China where people are afraid of deviating from the party line because they can really get in trouble.
924
Yeah, yeah.
925
Okay, this was super useful to get a very much more tangible sense of what is actually how the Chinese political system actually works.
926
We talk about China so much, and I just, most of us have such little understanding of even the basic like Congress president-level Chinese political system.
927
So, and obviously, a lot of it is obfuscated on purpose.
928
So, I appreciate you adding a lot more color to it.
929
Great.
930
Thank you for having me.
931
I hope you enjoyed this episode.
932
If you did, the most helpful thing you can do is just share it with other people who you think might enjoy it.
933
Send it to your friends, your group chats, Twitter, wherever else.
934
Just let the word go forth.
935
Other than that, super helpful if you can subscribe on YouTube and leave a five-star review on Apple Podcasts and Spotify.
936
Check out the sponsors in the description below.
937
If you want to sponsor a future episode, go to dwarcach.com/slash advertise.
938
Thank you for tuning in.
939
I'll see you on the next one.